.\" nocat.conf - NoCatSplash gateway daemon configuration file
.\" This manual page is copyright 2005 Keegan Quinn.

.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.

.TH nocat.conf 5 "January 2005"
.SH NAME
nocat.conf \- NoCatSplash gateway daemon configuration file

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nocat.conf
is the configuration file for the NoCatSplash gateway daemon.  It should
contain one configuration keyword per line, followed by appropriate
configuration information.  Lines starting with # are comments, and are
ignored.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BI GatewayName\  STRING
The name of the gateway.

.TP
.BI LoginTimeout\  INTEGER
Number of seconds after a client's last login/renewal to terminate their
connection. Probably don't want to set this to less than 60 or a lot of
bandwidth is likely to get consumed by the client's renewal attempts. 

For Open Mode portals, you probably want to set LoginTimeout to 
something large (like 86400, for one notification
per day).

.TP
.BI LogFacility\  STRING
If set to "syslog", splashd will log to syslog(3), using the daemon syslog
facillity. Otherwise, splashd will log to standard error. LogFacility defaults
to "syslog".

.TP
.BI SyslogIdent\  STRING
The string which splashd uses in order to identify itself to syslog(3).
Defaults to "NoCat".

.TP
.BI DocumentRoot\  PATH
Where all of the application templates (including SplashForm) are hiding.

.TP
.BI SplashForm\  FILE
The file in DocumentRoot used as the template for the splash page.

.TP
.BI SplashURL\  URL
Optional URL to fetch dynamic remote splash page from. You must compile
with --with-remote-splash for this to work.

.TP
.BI SplashTimeout\  URL
Specifies the reload period of the remote splash page, if one is used.

.TP
.BI StatusForm\  FILE
The file in DocumentRoot used as the template for the status page.

.TP
.BI ExternalDevice\  INTERFACE
The upstream network interface. Required if and only if NoCatSplash can't
figure it out from looking at your routing tables and picking the interface
that carries the default route. Must be set to the interface connected to the
Internet. Usually eth0 or eth1 under Linux, or maybe even ppp0 if you're
running PPP or PPPoE.

.TP
.BI InternalDevice\  INTERFACE
The local (typically wireless) interface.  Required if and only if your machine
has more than two network interfaces; otherwise, NoCatSplash will assume that
the network interface that doesn't have the default route is the
InternalDevice. Must be set to the interface connected to your local network,
normally your wireless card, e.g. eth1, wlan0, etc.

.TP
.BI LocalNetwork\  NETWORK/NETMASK
The network address and netmask of your internal (usually wireless) network.
Required if and only if NoCatSplash can't figure it out by polling the
InternalDevice. Must be set to the network address and net mask of your
internal network. You can use the number of bits in the netmask (e.g. /16, /24,
etc.) or the full x.x.x.x specification.

.TP
.BI DNSAddr\  IP-ADDRESS
Optional. *If* you choose not to run DNS on your internal network, DNSAddr
should specify the address(es) of one or more domain name server on the
Internet that wireless clients can use to get out. Should be the same DNS that
your DHCP server hands out.

.TP
.BI AllowedWebHosts\  HOSTNAME\ [HOSTNAME ...]
Optional.  List any hosts that you would like to allow clients to have web
access to (TCP port 80 and 443) BEFORE logging in. This is the pre-login
stage, so be careful about what you allow.

.TP
.BI IncludePorts\  PORT\ [PORT ...]
Optional.  Specify TCP ports to allow access to when public class users login.
All others will be denied. Don't forget to specify ports 80 and 443 if you
decide to use IncludePorts or your users will be grumpy. We recommend using
ExcludePorts instead.

.TP
.BI ExcludePorts\  PORT\ [PORT ...]
Optional.  Specify TCP ports to denied access to when public class users login.
All others will be allowed.

Note that you should use either IncludePorts or ExcludePorts, but not both.  If
neither is specified, access is granted to all ports to public class users.

You should *always* exclude port 25 (SMTP), unless you want to run an portal
for wanton spam sending. Users should have their own way of sending mail. It
sucks, but that's the way it is. Your nocat.conf excludes port 25 by default.

.TP
.BI ResetCmd/PermitCmd/DenyCmd\  FILE
Shell commands to reset, open and close the firewall. You probably don't need
to change these.

.TP
.BI GatewayPort\  PORT
The TCP port to bind the gateway service to. 5280 is de-facto standard for
NoCatSplash.  Change this only if you absolutely need to.

.SH SEE ALSO

The default nocat.conf comes with extensive comments.

.BR splashd(8)

.BR http://nocat.net/

.SH COPYRIGHT

NoCatSplash is copyright (c) 2004 - 2005 Schuyler Erle <schuyler@nocat.net> and
Rob Flickenger <rob@nocat.net>, and is distributed under the GNU Public License
v2 or better.

This manual page is copyright 2005 Keegan Quinn.

