.\" splashd - NoCatSplash gateway daemon
.\" This manual page is copyright 2005 Keegan Quinn.

.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.

.TH splashd 8 "January 2005"
.SH NAME
splashd \- NoCatSplash gateway daemon

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B splashd

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B splashd
is the NoCatSplash gateway daemon. At
startup time, it reads and parses
.B nocat.conf
then falls into the background to accept connections. Currently
the only supported command-line option is
.B -D
which forces splashd to run in the foreground.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/nocat.conf 
Configuration file.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nocat.conf(5)

.BR http://nocat.net/

.SH COPYRIGHT

NoCatSplash is copyright (c) 2004 - 2005 Schuyler Erle <schuyler@nocat.net> and
Rob Flickenger <rob@nocat.net>, and is distributed under the GNU Public License
v2 or better.

This manual page is copyright 2005 Keegan Quinn.

