.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2024 zhenwei pi <pizhenwei@bytedance.com>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"
.TH HUGETOP 1 2024-01-18 procps-ng
.SH NAME
hugetop \- report huge page information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hugetop
.RI [ option " .\|.\|.]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B hugetop
command reports the huge page information of system and processes. It displays
a summary of the system huge page status. For each process that has at
least one huge page, the number of private and shared pages, along with
the process PID and command name are displayed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-delay\fR=\fIN\fR
Refresh the display every
.I n
in seconds.  By default,
.B hugetop
refreshes the display every three seconds.  To exit the program, hit
.BR q .
This cannot be combined with the \fB-o\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-numa\fR
Display per NUMA node huge page information.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-once\fR
Display the output once and then exit.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-human\fR
Display human-readable output.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help text and exit.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version information and exit.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B Others
Errno.
.PD
.SH AUTHOR
zhenwei pi <pizhenwei@bytedance.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pmap (1)
.SH STANDARDS
No standards apply.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please send bug reports to
.MT procps@freelists.org
.ME .
