.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2004-2025 Craig Small <csmall@dropbear.xyz>
.\" Copyright (c) 2013-2024 Jim Warner <james.warner@comcast.net>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011-2012 Sami Kerola <kerolasa@iki.fi>
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2004 Albert Cahalan
.\" Copyright (c) 2000      Kjetil Torgrim Homme
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.TH PGREP 1 2025-04-23 procps-ng
.SH NAME
pgrep, pkill, pidwait \- look up, signal, or wait for processes based on name and other attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pgrep
.RI [ option " .\|.\|.\&]"
.I pattern
.P
.B pkill
.RI [ option " .\|.\|.\&]"
.I pattern
.P
.B pidwait
.RI [ option " .\|.\|.\&]"
.I pattern
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pgrep
looks through the currently running processes and lists the process IDs which
match the selection criteria to stdout.  All the criteria have to match.
For example,
.IP
$ pgrep \-u root sshd
.PP
will only list the processes whose name include
.B sshd
AND owned by
.BR root .
On the other hand,
.IP
$ pgrep \-u root,daemon
.PP
will list the processes owned by
.B root
OR
.BR daemon .
.PP
.B pkill
will send the specified signal (by default
.BR SIGTERM )
to each process instead of listing them on stdout.
.PP
.B pidwait
will wait for each process instead of listing them on stdout.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\fR\fIsignal\fP
.TQ
\fB\-\-signal\fR \fIsignal\fR
Defines the signal to send to each matched process.  Either the numeric or
the symbolic signal name can be used. In
.B pgrep
or
.B pidwait
mode only the long option can be used and has no effect unless used in conjunction with
\fB\-\-require\-handler\fR to filter to processes with a userspace signal
handler present for a particular signal.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-count\fR
Suppress normal output; instead print a count of matching processes.  When
count does not match anything, e.g. returns zero, the command will return
non-zero value. Note that for pkill and pidwait, the count is the number of
matching processes, not the processes that were successfully signaled or waited
for.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-delimiter\fR \fIdelimiter\fP
Sets the string used to delimit each process ID in the output (by default a
newline).
.RB ( pgrep
only.)
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-echo\fR
Display name and PID of the process being killed.
.RB ( pkill
only.)
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-full\fR
The
.I pattern
is normally only matched against the process name.  When
.B \-f
is set, the full command line is used.
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-pgroup\fR \fIpgrp\fP,.\|.\|.
Only match processes in the process group IDs listed.  Process group 0 is
translated into
.BR pgrep 's,
.BR pkill 's,
or
.BR pidwait 's
own process group.
.TP
\fB\-G\fR, \fB\-\-group\fR \fIgid\fP,.\|.\|.
Only match processes whose real group ID is listed.  Either the numerical or
symbolical value may be used.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-ignore\-case\fR
Match processes case-insensitively.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\-name\fR
List the process name as well as the process ID.
.RB ( pgrep
only.)
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-list\-full\fR
List the full command line as well as the process ID.
.RB ( pgrep
only.)
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-newest\fR
Select only the newest (most recently started) of the matching processes.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-oldest\fR
Select only the oldest (least recently started) of the matching processes.
.TP
\fB\-O\fR, \fB\-\-older\fR \fIsecs\fP
Select processes older than secs.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pid\fR \fIpid\fP,.\|.\|.
Only match processes whose process ID is listed. Conflicts with the
\fB\-\-pidfile\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-parent\fR \fIppid\fP,.\|.\|.
Only match processes whose parent process ID is listed.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-session\fR \fIsid\fP,.\|.\|.
Only match processes whose process session ID is listed.  Session ID 0
is translated into
.BR pgrep 's,
.BR pkill 's,
or
.BR pidwait 's
own session ID.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-terminal\fR \fIterm\fP,.\|.\|.
Only match processes whose controlling terminal is listed.  The terminal name
should be specified without the "/dev/" prefix.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-euid\fR \fIeuid\fP,.\|.\|.
Only match processes whose effective user ID is listed.  Either the numerical
or symbolical value may be used.
.TP
\fB\-U\fR, \fB\-\-uid\fR \fIuid\fP,.\|.\|.
Only match processes whose real user ID is listed.  Either the numerical or
symbolical value may be used.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-inverse\fR\fR
Negates the matching.  This option is usually used in
.BR pgrep 's
or
.BR pidwait 's
context.  In
.BR pkill 's
context the short option is disabled to avoid accidental usage of the option.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-lightweight\fR\fR
Shows all thread ids instead of pids in
.BR pgrep 's
or
.BR pidwait 's
context.  In
.BR pkill 's
context this option is disabled.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-exact\fR\fR
Only match processes whose names (or command lines if \fB\-f\fR is specified)
.B exactly
match the
.IR pattern .
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-pidfile\fR \fIfile\fR
Read \fIPID\fRs from \fIfile\fR.  This option is more useful for
.B pkill
or
.B pidwait
than
.BR pgrep .
The filename "\-" can be used to read from \fISTDIN\fR.
Conflicts with the \fB\-\-pid\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-logpidfile\fR
Fail if pidfile (see \fB\-F\fR) not locked.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-runstates\fR \fID,R,S,Z,\fP.\|.\|.
Match only processes which match the process state.
.TP
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-ignore-ancestors\fR\fR
Ignore all ancestors of
.BR pgrep ,
.BR pkill ,
or
.BR pidwait .
For example, this can be useful when elevating with
.B sudo
or similar tools.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-require\-handler\fR\fR
Only match processes with a userspace signal handler present for the signal to
be sent.
.TP
\fB\-Q\fR, \fB\-\-shell\-quote\fR\fR
Output the command line in shell-quoted form.
.RB ( pgrep
only.)
.TP
\fB\-\-cgroup \fIname\fP,.\|.\|.
Match on provided control group (cgroup) v2 name. See
.BR cgroups (8)
.TP
\fB\-\-env \fIname\fR[\fI=value\fR],.\|.\|.
Match on process that have these environment variables. If the \fI=value\fR
parameter is not defined then only the variable name is matched.
.TP
\fB\-\-ns \fIpid\fP
Match processes that belong to the same namespaces. Required to run as
root to match processes from other users. See \fB\-\-nslist\fR for how to
limit which namespaces to match.
.TP
\fB\-\-nslist \fIname\fP,.\|.\|.
Match only the provided namespaces. Available namespaces:
ipc, mnt, net, pid, user, uts.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-queue \fIvalue\fP
Use
.BR sigqueue (3)
rather than
.BR kill (2)
and the value argument is used to specify
an integer to be sent with the signal. If the receiving process has
installed a handler for this signal using the SA_SIGINFO flag to
.BR sigaction (2),
then it can obtain this data via the si_value field of the
siginfo_t structure.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mrelease\fR
After sending the signal, invoke the process_mrelease system call to immediately free
the target process's memory.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help and exit.
.SH OPERANDS
.TP
.I pattern
Specifies an Extended Regular Expression for matching against the process
names or command lines.
.SH EXAMPLES
Example 1: Find the process ID of the
.B named
daemon:
.IP
$ pgrep \-u root named
.PP
Example 2: Make
.B syslog
reread its configuration file:
.IP
$ pkill \-HUP syslogd
.PP
Example 3: Give detailed information on all
.B xterm
processes:
.IP
$ ps \-fp $(pgrep \-d, \-x xterm)
.PP
Example 4: Make all
.B chrome
processes run nicer:
.IP
$ renice +4 $(pgrep chrome)
.PP
Example 5: Wait for a process with a known PID to finish:
.IP
$ echo ${PID} | pidwait -F -
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
One or more processes matched the criteria. For
.B pkill
and
.BR pidwait ,
one or more
processes must also have been successfully signalled or waited for.
.TP
.B 1
No processes matched or none of them could be signalled.
.TP
.B 2
Syntax error in the command line.
.TP
.B 3
Fatal error: out of memory etc.
.SH NOTES
The process name used for matching is limited to the 15 characters present in
the output of /proc/\fIpid\fP/stat.  Use the \fB\-f\fR option to match against the
complete command line, /proc/\fIpid\fP/cmdline. Threads may not have the
same process name as the parent process but will have the same command line.
.PP
The running
.BR pgrep ,
.BR pkill ,
or
.B pidwait
process will never report itself as a
match.
.PP
The
.B \-O \-\-older
option will silently fail if \fI/proc\fR is mounted with the \fIsubset=pid\fR option.
.SH BUGS
The options
.B \-n
and
.B \-o
and
.B \-v
can not be combined.  Let
me know if you need to do this.
.PP
If processes start in the same clock tick (usually but not always a 100th
of a second, the options
.B \-n
and
.B \-o
will not be able to distinguish which process started in the same clock
tick and may give erroneous results.
.PP
Defunct processes are reported.
.PP
.B pidwait
requires the
.BR pidfd_open (2)
system call which first appeared in Linux 5.3.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ps (1),
.BR regex (7),
.BR signal (7),
.BR sigqueue (3),
.BR killall (1),
.BR skill (1),
.BR kill (1),
.BR kill (2),
.BR cgroups (8).
.SH AUTHOR
.MT kjetilho@ifi.uio.no
Kjetil Torgrim Homme
.ME
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please send bug reports to
.MT procps@freelists.org
.ME .
