.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2011-2023 Craig Small <csmall@dropbear.xyz>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011-2012 Sami Kerola <kerolasa@iki.fi>
.\" Copyright (c) 2013      Jaromir Capik <jcapik@redhat.com>
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2002 Albert Cahalan
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"
.\" (The preceding line is a note to broken versions of man to tell
.\" them to pre-process this man page with tbl)
.\" Man page for pmap.
.\" Licensed under version 2 of the GNU General Public License.
.\" Written by Albert Cahalan.
.\"
.TH PMAP 1 2020-06-04 procps-ng
.SH NAME
pmap \- report memory map of a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pmap
.RI [ option " .\|.\|.\&]"
.IR pid " .\|.\|."
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pmap
command reports the memory map of a process or processes.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-extended\fR
Show the extended format.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-device\fR
Show the device format.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Do not display some header or footer lines.
.TP
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-range\fR \fIlow\fR,\fIhigh\fR
Limit results to the given range to
.I low
and
.I high
address range.  Notice that the low and high arguments are single string
separated with comma.
.TP
\fB\-X\fR
Show even more details than the \fB\-x\fR option. WARNING: format changes
according to \fI/proc/PID/smaps\fR
.TP
\fB\-XX\fR
Show everything the kernel provides
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-show\-path\fR
Show full path to files in the mapping column
.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-use\-kernel\-name\fR
If available, use names provided by the kernel instead of "[ anon ]"
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-read\-rc\fR
Read the default configuration
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-read\-rc\-from\fR \fIfile\fR
Read the configuration from \fIfile\fR
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-create\-rc\fR
Create new default configuration
.TP
\fB\-N\fR, \fB\-\-create\-rc\-to\fR \fIfile\fR
Create new configuration to \fIfile\fR
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help text and exit.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version information and exit.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
.RS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Failure.
.TP
.B 42
Did not find all processes asked for.
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ps (1),
.BR pgrep (1)
.SH STANDARDS
No standards apply, but
.B pmap
looks an awful lot like a SunOS command.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please send bug reports to
.MT procps@freelists.org
.ME .
