.ig
. manual page for NEW and IMPROVED linux top
.
. Copyright (c) 2002-2025 Jim Warner <james.warner@comcast.net
.
. This file may be copied under the terms of the GNU Public License.
..
\#  Setup ////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
\#                      Commonly used strings (for consistency) ----------
\#                           - our em-dashes
.ds Em \fR\ \-\-\ \fR
.ds EM \fB\ \-\-\ \fR
\#                           - our program name (makes great grammar)
.ds We top
.ds WE \fBtop\fR
\#                           - other misc strs for consistent usage
.ds F \fIOff\fR
.ds O \fIOn\fR
.
.ds AK asterisk (\[oq]*\[cq])
.ds AM alternate\-display mode
.ds AS auxiliary storage
.ds CF configuration file
.ds CG \[oq]current\[cq] window/field group
.ds CI interactive command
.ds CO command\-line option
.ds CT command toggle
.ds CW \[oq]current\[cq] window
.ds FG field group
.ds FM full\-screen mode
.ds KA arrow key
.ds KS scrolling key
.ds MP physical memory
.ds MS swap file
.ds MV virtual memory
.ds NT \fBNote\fR:
.ds PU CPU
.ds Pu cpu
.ds SA summary area
.ds TA task area
.ds TD task display
.ds TT \fBprocesses\fR or \fBthreads\fR
.ds TW task window
\#                      Reference to the various widths/sizes ------------
\#                           - the max screen width limit
.ds WX 512
\#                           - the header width w/ all fields
.ds WF approximately 250
\#                           - pid monitoring limit
\#                      Xref's that depend on/mention other stuff --------
.ds Xa see
.ds XC See the
.ds Xc see the
.ds XT See topic
.ds Xt see topic
.ds XX See \[oq]OVERVIEW, Linux Memory Types\[cq] for additional details
.ds ZX Accessing smaps values is 10x more costly than other \
memory statistics and data for other users requires root privileges
.
.\" Document /////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH TOP 1 2025-01-01 procps-ng
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.nh

.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
top \- display Linux processes

.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
\*(WE
.RI [ option " .\|.\|.]"

.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
The \*(WE program provides a dynamic real-time view of a running system.
It can display\fB system\fR summary information as well as a list of
\*(TT currently being managed by the Linux kernel.
The types of system summary information shown and the types, order and
size of information displayed for processes are all user configurable
and that configuration can be made persistent across restarts.

The program provides a limited interactive interface for process
manipulation as well as a much more extensive interface for personal
configuration \*(Em encompassing every aspect of its operation.
And while \*(WE is referred to throughout this document, you are free
to name the program anything you wish.
That new name, possibly an alias, will then be reflected on \*(We's
display and used when reading and writing a \*(CF.

.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OVERVIEW
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" ......................................................................
.SS Documentation
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
The remaining Table of Contents

.nf
    OVERVIEW
       Operation
       Linux Memory Types
    1. COMMAND\-LINE Options
    2. SUMMARY Display
       a. UPTIME and LOAD Averages
       b. TASK and CPU States
       c. MEMORY Usage
    3. FIELDS / Columns Display
       a. DESCRIPTIONS of Fields
       b. MANAGING Fields
    4. INTERACTIVE Commands
       a. GLOBAL Commands
       b. SUMMARY AREA Commands
       c. TASK AREA Commands
          1. Appearance
          2. Content
          3. Size
          4. Sorting
       d. BOTTOM WINDOW Commands
       e. COLOR Mapping
    5. ALTERNATE\-DISPLAY Provisions
       a. WINDOWS Overview
       b. COMMANDS for Windows
       c. SCROLLING a Window
       d. SEARCHING in a Window
       e. FILTERING in a Window
    6. FILES
       a. PERSONAL Configuration File
       b. ADDING INSPECT Entries
       c. SYSTEM Configuration File
       d. SYSTEM Restrictions File
    7. ENVIRONMENT VARIABLE(S)
    8. STUPID TRICKS Sampler
       a. Kernel Magic
       b. Bouncing Windows
       c. The Big Bird Window
       d. The Ol' Switcheroo
    9. BUGS, 10. SEE Also
.fi

.\" ......................................................................
.SS Operation
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
When operating \*(We, the two most important keys are the help (h or ?)
key and quit (\[oq]q\[cq]) key.
Alternatively, you could simply use the traditional interrupt key (^C)
when you're done.

When started for the first time, you'll be presented with these traditional
elements on the main \*(We screen: 1) Summary Area; 2) Fields/Columns Header;
3) Task Area.
Each of these will be explored in the sections that follow.
There is also an Input/Message line between the Summary Area and Columns
Header which needs no further explanation.

The main \*(We screen is \fIgenerally\fR quite adaptive to changes in
terminal dimensions under X-Windows.
Other \*(We screens may be less so, especially those with static text.
It ultimately depends, however, on your particular window manager and
terminal emulator.
There may be occasions when their view of terminal size and current contents
differs from \*(We's view, which is always based on operating system calls.

Following any re-size operation, if a \*(We screen is corrupted, appears
incomplete or disordered, simply typing something innocuous like a
punctuation character or cursor motion key will usually restore it.
In extreme cases, the following sequence almost certainly will:
.nf
       \fIkey/cmd  objective \fR
       ^Z       \fBsuspend\fR \*(We
       fg       \fBresume\fR \*(We
       <Left>   force a screen \fBredraw\fR (if necessary)
.fi

But if the display is still corrupted, there is one more step you could try.
Insert this command after \*(We has been suspended but before resuming it.
.nf
       \fIkey/cmd  objective \fR
       reset    restore your \fBterminal settings\fR
.fi

\*(NT the width of \*(We's display will be limited to \*(WX positions.
Displaying all fields requires \*(WF characters.
Remaining screen width is usually allocated to any variable width columns
currently visible.
The variable width columns, such as COMMAND, are noted in topic
3a. DESCRIPTIONS of Fields.
Actual output width may also be influenced by the \-w switch, which is
discussed in topic 1. COMMAND\-LINE Options.

Lastly, some of \*(We's screens or functions require the use of cursor
motion keys like the standard \*(KAs plus the Home, End, PgUp and PgDn keys.
If your terminal or emulator does not provide those keys, the following
combinations are accepted as alternatives:
.nf
      \fI key      equivalent-keys \fR
       Left     alt +\fB h \fR
       Down     alt +\fB j \fR
       Up       alt +\fB k \fR
       Right    alt +\fB l \fR
       Home     alt + ctrl +\fB h \fR
       PgDn     alt + ctrl +\fB j \fR
       PgUp     alt + ctrl +\fB k \fR
       End      alt + ctrl +\fB l \fR
.fi

The \fBUp\fR and \fBDown\fR \*(KAs have special significance when prompted
for line input terminated with the <Enter> key.
Those keys, or their aliases, can be used to retrieve previous input lines
which can then be edited and re-input.
And there are four additional keys available with line oriented input.
.nf
      \fI key      special-significance \fR
       Up       recall \fBolder\fR strings for re-editing
       Down     recall \fBnewer\fR strings or \fBerase\fR entire line
       Insert   toggle between \fBinsert\fR and \fBovertype\fR modes
       Delete   character \fBremoved\fR at cursor, moving others left
       Home     jump to \fBbeginning\fR of input line
       End      jump to \fBend\fR of input line
.fi

.\" ......................................................................
.SS Linux Memory Types
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
For our purposes there are three types of memory, and one is optional.
First is \*(MP, a limited resource where code and data must
reside when executed or referenced.
Next is the optional \*(MS, where modified (dirty) memory can be saved
and later retrieved if too many demands are made on \*(MP.
Lastly we have \*(MV, a nearly unlimited resource serving the
following goals:

.nf
   1. abstraction, free from physical memory addresses/limits
   2. isolation, every process in a separate address space
   3. sharing, a single mapping can serve multiple needs
   4. flexibility, assign a virtual address to a file
.fi

Regardless of which of these forms memory may take, all are managed as
pages (typically 4096 bytes) but expressed by default in \*(We as
KiB (kibibyte).
The memory discussed under topic \[oq]2c. MEMORY Usage\[cq] deals with
\*(MP and the \*(MS for the system as a whole.
The memory reviewed in topic \[oq]3. FIELDS / Columns Display\[cq]
embraces all three memory types, but for individual processes.

For each such process, every memory page is restricted to a single
quadrant from the table below.
Both \*(MP and \*(MV can include any of the four, while the \*(MS only
includes #1 through #3.
The memory in quadrant #4, when modified, acts as its own dedicated \*(MS.

.nf
                              \fBPrivate\fR | \fBShared\fR
                          \fB1\fR           |          \fB2\fR
     \fBAnonymous\fR  . stack               |
                . malloc()            |
                . brk()/sbrk()        | . POSIX shm*
                . mmap(PRIVATE, ANON) | . mmap(SHARED, ANON)
               -----------------------+----------------------
                . mmap(PRIVATE, fd)   | . mmap(SHARED, fd)
   \fBFile-backed\fR  . pgms/shared libs    |
                          \fB3\fR           |          \fB4\fR
.fi

The following may help in interpreting process level memory values displayed
as scalable columns and discussed under topic \[oq]3a. DESCRIPTIONS of
Fields\[cq].

.nf
   %MEM \- simply RES divided by total \*(MP
   CODE \- the \[oq]pgms\[cq] portion of quadrant \fB3\fR
   DATA \- the entire quadrant \fB1\fR portion of VIRT plus all
          explicit mmap file-backed pages of quadrant \fB3\fR
   RES  \- anything occupying \*(MP which, beginning with
          Linux-4.5, is the sum of the following three fields:
          RSan \- quadrant \fB1\fR pages, which include any
                 former quadrant \fB3\fR pages if modified
          RSfd \- quadrant \fB3\fR and quadrant \fB4\fR pages
          RSsh \- quadrant \fB2\fR pages
   RSlk \- subset of RES which cannot be swapped out (any quadrant)
   SHR  \- subset of RES (excludes \fB1\fR, includes all \fB2\fR & \fB4\fR, some \fB3\fR)
   SWAP \- potentially any quadrant except \fB4\fR
   USED \- simply the sum of RES and SWAP
   VIRT \- everything in-use and/or reserved (all quadrants)
.fi

\*(NT Even though program images and shared libraries are considered
\fIprivate\fR to a process, they will be accounted for as \fIshared\fR
(SHR) by the kernel.

.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH 1. COMMAND-LINE Options
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Mandatory\fI arguments\fR to long options are mandatory for short
options too.

Although not required, the equals sign can be used with either option
form and whitespace before and/or after the \[oq]=\[cq] is permitted.

.TP 3
\-\fBA\fR, \fB\-\-apply-defaults\fR
Run \*(We with build defaults only, ignoring all configuration files except
/etc/toprc.
This option, when specified, must be the only command line option present.

.TP 3
\-\fBb\fR, \fB\-\-batch\fR
Starts \*(We in Batch mode, which could be useful for sending output
from \*(We to other programs or to a file.
In this mode, \*(We will not accept input and runs until the iterations
limit you've set with the \[oq]\-n\[cq] \*(CO or until killed.

.TP 3
\-\fBc\fR, \fB\-\-cmdline\-toggle\fR
Starts \*(We with the last remembered \[oq]c\[cq] state reversed.
Thus, if \*(We was displaying command lines, now that field will show program
names, and vice versa.
\*(XC \[oq]c\[cq] \*(CI for additional information.

.TP 3
\-\fBd\fR, \fB\-\-delay\fR = \fISECS\fR [\fI.TENTHS\fR]\fR
Specifies the delay between screen updates, and overrides the corresponding
value in one's personal \*(CF or the startup default.
Later this can be changed with the \[oq]d\[cq] or \[oq]s\[cq] \*(CIs.

Fractional seconds are honored, but a negative number is not allowed.
In all cases, however, such changes are prohibited if \*(We is running
in Secure mode, except for root (unless the \[oq]s\[cq] \*(CO was used).
For additional information on Secure mode \*(Xt 6d. SYSTEM Restrictions File.

.TP 3
\-\fBE\fR, \fB\-\-scale-summary-mem\fR = \fIk\fR | \fIm\fR | \fIg\fR | \fIt\fR | \fIp\fR | \fIe\fR
Instructs \*(We to force \*(SA memory to be scaled as:
.nf
   k \- kibibytes
   m \- mebibytes
   g \- gibibytes
   t \- tebibytes
   p \- pebibytes
   e \- exbibytes
.fi

Later this can be changed with the \[oq]E\[cq] \*(CT.

.TP 3
\-\fBe\fR, \fB\-\-scale-task-mem\fR = \fIk\fR | \fIm\fR | \fIg\fR | \fIt\fR | \fIp\fR
Instructs \*(We to force \*(TA memory to be scaled as:
.nf
   k \- kibibytes
   m \- mebibytes
   g \- gibibytes
   t \- tebibytes
   p \- pebibytes
.fi

Later this can be changed with the \[oq]e\[cq] \*(CT.

.TP 3
\-\fBH\fR, \fB\-\-threads-show\fR
Instructs \*(We to display individual threads.
Without this \*(CO a summation of all threads in each process is shown.
Later this can be changed with the \[oq]H\[cq] \*(CI.

.TP 3
\-\fBh\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage help text, then quit.

.TP 3
\-\fBi\fR, \fB\-\-idle-toggle\fR
Starts \*(We with the last remembered \[oq]i\[cq] state reversed.
When this toggle is \*F, tasks that have not used any \*(PU since the
last update will not be displayed.
For additional information regarding this toggle
\*(Xt 4c. TASK AREA Commands, SIZE.

.TP 3
\-\fBn\fR, \fB\-\-iterations\fR = \fINUMBER\fR
Specifies the maximum number of iterations, or frames, \*(We should
produce before ending.

.TP 3
\-\fBO\fR, \fB\-\-list-fields\fR
This option acts as a form of help for the \-o option shown below.
It will cause \*(We to print each of the available field names on a
separate line, then quit.
Such names are subject to NLS (National Language Support) translation.

.TP 3
\-\fBo\fR, \fB\-\-sort-override\fR = \fIFIELDNAME\fR
Specifies the name of the field on which tasks will be sorted, independent
of what is reflected in the configuration file.
You can prepend a \[oq]+\[cq] or \[oq]\-\[cq] to the field name to also
override the sort direction.
A leading \[oq]+\[cq] will force sorting high to low,
whereas a \[oq]\-\[cq] will ensure a low to high ordering.

This option exists primarily to support automated/scripted batch mode
operation.

.TP 3
\-\fBp\fR, \fB\-\-pid\fR = \fIPIDLIST\fR \
(as: \fI1\fR,\fI2\fR,\fI3\fR, .\|.\|.\fR or
\fR-p\fI1\fR -p\fI2\fR -p\fI3\fR .\|.\|.)
Monitor only processes with specified process IDs.
However, when combined with Threads mode (\[oq]H\[cq]),
all processes in the thread group (\*(Xa TGID) of each monitored PID
will also be shown.

This option can be given up to 20 times, or you can provide a comma delimited
list with up to 20 pids.
Co-mingling both approaches is permitted.

A pid value of zero will be treated as the process id of the \*(We program
itself once it is running.

This is a \*(CO only and should you wish to return to normal operation,
it is not necessary to quit and restart \*(We \*(Em just issue any
of these \*(CIs: \[oq]=\[cq], \[oq]u\[cq] or \[oq]U\[cq].

The \[oq]p\[cq],
\[oq]u\[cq] and \[oq]U\[cq] \*(COs are mutually exclusive.

.TP 3
\-\fBS\fR, \fB\-\-accum-time-toggle\fR
Starts \*(We with the last remembered \[oq]S\[cq] state reversed.
When Cumulative time mode is \*O, each process is listed with the \*(Pu
time that it and its dead children have used.
\*(XC \[oq]S\[cq] \*(CI for additional information regarding this mode.

.TP 3
\-\fBs\fR, \fB\-\-secure-mode\fR
Starts \*(We with secure mode forced, even for root.
This mode is far better controlled through a system \*(CF
(\*(Xt 6. FILES).

.TP 3
\-\fBU\fR, \fB\-\-filter-any-user\fR = \fIUSER\fR (as: \fInumber\fR or \fIname\fR)
Display only processes with a user id or user name matching that given.
This option matches on\fI any\fR user (\fIreal\fR, \fIeffective\fR,
\fIsaved\fR, or \fIfilesystem\fR).

Prepending an exclamation point (\[oq]!\[cq]) to the user id or name
instructs \*(We to display only processes with users not matching the
one provided.

The \[oq]p\[cq],
\[oq]U\[cq] and \[oq]u\[cq] \*(COs are mutually exclusive.

.TP 3
\-\fBu\fR, \fB\-\-filter-only-euser\fR = \fIUSER\fR (as: \fInumber\fR or \fIname\fR)
Display only processes with a user id or user name matching that given.
This option matches on the\fI effective\fR user id only.

Prepending an exclamation point (\[oq]!\[cq]) to the user id or name
instructs \*(We to display only processes with users not matching the
one provided.

The \[oq]p\[cq],
\[oq]U\[cq] and \[oq]u\[cq] \*(COs are mutually exclusive.

.TP 3
\-\fBV\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version information, then quit.

.TP 3
\-\fBw\fR, \fB\-\-width\fR [=\fICOLUMNS\fR]
In Batch mode, when used without an argument \*(We will format
output using the COLUMNS= and LINES= environment variables, if set.
Otherwise, width will be fixed at the maximum \*(WX columns.
With an argument, output width can be decreased or increased (up to \*(WX)
but the number of rows is considered unlimited.

In normal display mode, when used without an argument \*(We will\fI attempt\fR
to format output using the COLUMNS= and LINES= environment variables, if set.
With an argument, output width can only be decreased, not increased.
Whether using environment variables or an argument with \-w, when\fI not\fR
in Batch mode actual terminal dimensions can never be exceeded.

\*(NT Without the use of this \*(CO, output width is always based on the
terminal at which \*(We was invoked whether or not in Batch mode.

.TP 3
\-\fB1\fR, \fB\-\-single-cpu-toggle\fR
Starts \*(We with the last remembered Cpu States portion of the \*(SA reversed.
Either all \*(Pu information will be displayed in a single line or
each \*(Pu will be displayed separately, depending on the state of the NUMA Node
\*(CT (\[oq]2\[cq]).

\*(XC \[oq]1\[cq] and \[oq]2\[cq] \*(CIs for additional information.

.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH 2. SUMMARY Display
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Each of the following three areas are individually controlled through
one or more \*(CIs.
\*(XT 4b. SUMMARY AREA Commands for additional information regarding
these provisions.

.\" ......................................................................
.SS 2a. UPTIME and LOAD Averages
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
This portion consists of a single line containing:
.nf
    \fBprogram\fR or\fB window\fR name, depending on display mode
    current time and length of time since last boot
    total number of users
    system load avg over the last 1, 5 and 15 minutes
.fi

.\" ......................................................................
.SS 2b. TASK and CPU States
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
This portion consists of a minimum of two lines.
In an SMP environment, additional lines can reflect individual \*(PU
state percentages.

Line 1 shows total\fB tasks\fR or\fB threads\fR, depending on the state
of the Threads-mode toggle.
That total is further classified according to task state as follows:
.nf
    displayed       process status (\[oq]S\[cq])
    ---------       --------------------
    running         R
    sleep           S + any remaining
    d-sleep         D
    stopped         T + t
    zombie          Z
.fi

Line 2 shows \*(PU state percentages based on the interval since the
last refresh.

As a default, percentages for these individual categories are displayed.
Depending on your kernel version, the \fBst\fR field may not be shown.
.nf
    \fBus\fR : time running un-niced user processes
    \fBsy\fR : time running kernel processes
    \fBni\fR : time running niced user processes
    \fBid\fR : time spent in the kernel idle handler
    \fBwa\fR : time waiting for I/O completion
    \fBhi\fR : time spent servicing hardware interrupts
    \fBsi\fR : time spent servicing software interrupts
    \fBst\fR : time stolen from this vm by the hypervisor
.fi

Beyond the first tasks/threads line, there are alternate \*(PU display
modes available via the 4-way \[oq]t\[cq] \*(CT.
They show an abbreviated summary consisting of these elements:
.nf
              \fR a  \fR  b    \fR c \fR   d
    %Cpu(s):  \fB75.0\fR/25.0  \fB100\fR[ .\|.\|. ]

.fi

Where: a) is the \[oq]user\[cq] (us + ni) percentage;
b) is the \[oq]system\[cq] (sy + hi + si + guests) percentage;
c) is the total percentage;
and d) is one of two visual graphs of those representations.
Such graphs also reflect separate \[oq]user\[cq] and \[oq]system\[cq]
portions.

If the \[oq]4\[cq] \*(CT is used to yield more than two cpus per line,
results will be further abridged eliminating the a) and b) elements.
However, that information is still reflected in the graph itself
assuming color is active or, if not, bars vs. blocks are being shown.

\*(XT 4b. SUMMARY AREA Commands for additional information on the
\[oq]t\[cq] and \[oq]4\[cq] \*(CTs.

.\" ......................................................................
.SS 2c. MEMORY Usage
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
This portion consists of two lines which may express values in kibibytes (KiB)
through exbibytes (EiB) depending on the scaling factor enforced
with the \[oq]E\[cq] \*(CI. The /proc/meminfo source fields are shown in
parenthesis.

Line 1 reflects \*(MP, classified as:
.nf
    total          ( MemTotal )
    free           ( MemFree )
    used           ( MemTotal - MemAvailable )
    buff/cache     ( Buffers + Cached + SReclaimable )
.fi

Line 2 reflects mostly \*(MV, classified as:
.nf
    total          ( SwapTotal )
    free           ( SwapFree )
    used           ( SwapTotal - SwapFree )
    avail          ( MemAvailable, which is \*(MP )
.fi

The \fBavail\fR number on line 2 is an estimation of \*(MP available for
starting new applications, without swapping.
Unlike the \fBfree\fR field, it attempts to account for readily reclaimable
page cache and memory slabs.
It is available on kernels 3.14, emulated on kernels 2.6.27+, otherwise
the same as \fBfree\fR.

In the alternate memory display modes, two abbreviated summary lines
are shown consisting of these elements:
.nf
              \fR a  \fR  b          c
    GiB Mem : \fB18.7\fR/15.738   [ .\|.\|. ]
    GiB Swap: \fB 0.0\fR/7.999    [ .\|.\|. ]
.fi

Where: a) is the percentage used; b) is the total available; and c) is one of two
visual graphs of those representations.

In the case of \*(MP, the percentage represents the \fBtotal\fR minus the estimated
\fBavail\fR noted above.
The \[oq]Mem\[cq] graph itself is divided between the non-cached portion
of \fBused\fR and any remaining memory not otherwise accounted for by
\fBavail\fR.
\*(XT 4b. SUMMARY AREA Commands and the \[oq]m\[cq] command for
additional information on that special 4-way toggle.

This table may help in interpreting the scaled values displayed:
.nf
    KiB = kibibyte = 1024 bytes
    MiB = mebibyte = 1024 KiB = 1,048,576 bytes
    GiB = gibibyte = 1024 MiB = 1,073,741,824 bytes
    TiB = tebibyte = 1024 GiB = 1,099,511,627,776 bytes
    PiB = pebibyte = 1024 TiB = 1,125,899,906,842,624 bytes
    EiB = exbibyte = 1024 PiB = 1,152,921,504,606,846,976 bytes
.fi

.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH 3. FIELDS / Columns
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" ......................................................................
.SS 3a. DESCRIPTIONS of Fields
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Listed below are \*(We's available process fields (columns).
They are shown in strict ascii alphabetical order.
You may customize their position and whether or not they are displayable
with the \[oq]f\[cq] (Fields Management) \*(CI.

Any field is selectable as the sort field, and you control whether they
are sorted high-to-low or low-to-high.
For additional information on sort provisions
\*(Xt 4c. TASK AREA Commands, SORTING.

The fields related to \*(MP or \*(MV reference \[oq](KiB)\[cq] which is
the unsuffixed display mode.
Such fields may, however, be scaled from KiB through PiB.
That scaling is influenced via the \[oq]e\[cq] \*(CI or established for
startup through a build option.

.TP 4
\fB%CPU \*(Em \*(PU Usage \fR
The task's share of the elapsed \*(PU time since the last screen update,
expressed as a percentage of total \*(PU time.

In a true SMP environment, if a process is multi-threaded and \*(We is
\fInot\fR operating in Threads mode, amounts greater than 100% may be
reported.
You toggle Threads mode with the \[oq]H\[cq] \*(CI.

Also for multi-processor environments, if Irix mode is \*F, \*(We
will operate in Solaris mode where a task's \*(Pu usage will be
divided by the total number of \*(PUs.
You toggle Irix/Solaris modes with the \[oq]I\[cq] \*(CI.

\*(NT When running in forest view mode (\[oq]V\[cq]) with children
collapsed (\[oq]v\[cq]), this field will also include the \*(PU time of
those unseen children.
\*(XT 4c. TASK AREA Commands, CONTENT for more information regarding
the \[oq]V\[cq] and \[oq]v\[cq] toggles.

.TP 4
\fB%CUC \*(Em \*(PU Utilization \fR
This field is identical to %CUU below, except the percentage also
reflects reaped child processes.

.TP 4
\fB%CUU \*(Em \*(PU Utilization \fR
A task's total \*(PU usage divided by its elapsed running time,
expressed as a percentage.

If a process currently displays high \*(PU usage, this field can help
determine if such behavior is normal.
Conversely, if a process has low \*(PU usage currently, %CUU may reflect
historically higher demands over its lifetime.

.TP 4
\fB%MEM \*(Em Memory Usage (RES) \fR
A task's currently resident share of available \*(MP.

\*(XX.

.TP 4
\fBAGID \*(Em Autogroup Identifier \fR
The autogroup identifier associated with a process.
This feature operates in conjunction with the CFS scheduler
to improve interactive desktop performance.

When /proc/sys/kernel/sched_autogroup_enabled is set, a new
autogroup is created with each new session (\*(Xa SID).
All subsequently forked processes in that session inherit membership in
this autogroup.
The kernel then attempts to equalize distribution of CPU cycles
across such groups.
Thus, an autogroup with many \*(PU intensive processes (e.g make -j)
will not dominate an autogroup with only one or two processes.

When -1 is displayed it means this information is not available.

.TP 4
\fBAGNI \*(Em Autogroup Nice Value \fR
The autogroup nice value which affects scheduling of all processes
in that group.
A negative nice value means higher priority, whereas a positive nice
value means lower priority.

.TP 4
\fBCGNAME \*(Em Control Group Name \fR
The name of the control group to which a process belongs,
or \[oq]\-\[cq] if not applicable for that process.

Available with cgroup v1 only, this will typically be the last entry in
the full list of control groups as displayed under the CGROUPS heading.
And as is true there, this field is also variable width.

.TP 4
\fBCGROUPS \*(Em Control Groups \fR
The names of the control group(s) to which a process belongs,
or \[oq]\-\[cq] if not applicable for that process.

Control Groups provide for allocating resources (cpu, memory, network
bandwidth, etc.) among installation-defined groups of processes.
They enable fine-grained control over allocating, denying, prioritizing,
managing and monitoring those resources.

Many different hierarchies of cgroups can exist simultaneously on a system
and each hierarchy is attached to one or more subsystems.
A subsystem represents a single resource.

\*(NT The CGROUPS field, unlike most columns, is not fixed-width.
When displayed, it plus any other variable width columns will be allocated
all remaining screen width (up to the maximum \*(WX characters).
Even so, such variable width fields could still suffer truncation.
\*(XT 5c. SCROLLING a Window for additional information on accessing
any truncated data.

.TP 4
\fBCLS \*(Em Scheduling Class \fR
The task's current scheduling policy which can be one of:
    \fB-  \fR = not reported
    \fBTS \fR = SCHED_OTHER
    \fBFF \fR = SCHED_FIFO
    \fBRR \fR = SCHED_RR
    \fBB  \fR = SCHED_BATCH
    \fBISO\fR = SCHED_ISO
    \fBIDL\fR = SCHED_IDLE
    \fBDLN\fR = SCHED_DEADLINE
    \fB?  \fR = unknown value

.TP 4
\fBCODE \*(Em Code Size (KiB) \fR
The amount of \*(MP currently devoted to executable code, also known
as the Text Resident Set size or TRS.

\*(XX.

.TP 4
\fBCOMMAND \*(Em Command\fB Name\fR or Command\fB Line \fR
Display the command line used to start a task or the name of the associated
program.
You toggle between command\fI line\fR and\fI name\fR with \[oq]c\[cq],
which is both a \*(CO and an \*(CI.

When you've chosen to display command lines, processes without a command
line (like kernel threads) will be shown with only the program name in
brackets, as in this example:
    \fR[kthreadd]

This field may also be impacted by the forest view display mode.
\*(XC \[oq]V\[cq] \*(CI for additional information regarding that mode.

\*(NT The COMMAND field, unlike most columns, is not fixed-width.
When displayed, it plus any other variable width columns will be allocated
all remaining screen width (up to the maximum \*(WX characters).
Even so, such variable width fields could still suffer truncation.
This is especially true for this field when command lines are being
displayed (the \[oq]c\[cq] \*(CI.)
\*(XT 5c. SCROLLING a Window for additional information on accessing
any truncated data.

.TP 4
\fBDATA \*(Em Data + Stack Size (KiB) \fR
The amount of private memory \fIreserved\fR by a process.
It is also known as the Data Resident Set or DRS.
Such memory may not yet be mapped to \*(MP (RES) but will always be
included in the \*(MV (VIRT) amount.

\*(XX.

.TP 4
\fBDocker\*(Em Docker Container ID \fR
The identity (abbreviated hash) of the docker container within which a task
is running.
If a process is not running inside a container,
a dash (\[oq]\-\[cq]) will be shown.

.TP 4
\fBELAPSED \*(Em Elapsed Running Time\fR
The length of time since a process was started.
Thus, the most recently started task will display the smallest time interval.

The value will be expressed as \[oq]HH,MM\[cq]
(hours,minutes)
but is subject to additional scaling if the interval becomes too great
to fit column width.
At that point it will be scaled to \[oq]DD+HH\[cq]
(days+hours)
and possibly beyond.

.TP 4
\fBENVIRON \*(Em Environment variables \fR
Display all of the environment variables, if any, as seen by the
respective processes.
These variables will be displayed in their raw native order,
not the sorted order you are accustomed to seeing with an unqualified
\[oq]set\[cq].

\*(NT The ENVIRON field, unlike most columns, is not fixed-width.
When displayed, it plus any other variable width columns will be allocated
all remaining screen width (up to the maximum \*(WX characters).
Even so, such variable width fields could still suffer truncation.
This is especially true for this field.
\*(XT 5c. SCROLLING a Window for additional information on accessing
any truncated data.

.TP 4
\fBEXE \*(Em Executable Path \fR
Where available, this is the full path to the executable,
including the program name.

\*(NT The EXE field, unlike most columns, is not fixed-width.
When displayed, it plus any other variable width columns will be allocated
all remaining screen width (up to the maximum \*(WX characters).

.TP 4
\fBFlags \*(Em Task Flags \fR
This column represents the task's current scheduling flags which are
expressed in hexadecimal notation and with zeros suppressed.
These flags are officially documented in <linux/sched.h>.

.TP 4
\fBGID \*(Em Group Id \fR
The\fI effective\fR group ID.

.TP 4
\fBGROUP \*(Em Group Name \fR
The\fI effective\fR group name.

.TP 4
\fBLOGID \*(Em Login User Id \fR
The user ID used at\fI login\fR.
When -1 is displayed it means this information is not available.

.TP 4
\fBLXC \*(Em Lxc Container Name \fR
The name of the lxc container within which a task is running.
If a process is not running inside a container,
a dash (\[oq]\-\[cq]) will be shown.

.TP 4
\fBNI \*(Em Nice Value \fR
The nice value of the task.
A negative nice value means higher priority, whereas a positive nice value
means lower priority.
Zero in this field simply means priority will not be adjusted in determining
a task's dispatch-ability.

\*(NT This value only affects scheduling priority relative to other processes
in the same autogroup.
\*(XC \[oq]AGID\[cq] and \[oq]AGNI\[cq] fields for additional
information on autogroups.

.TP 4
\fBNU \*(Em Last known NUMA node \fR
A number representing the NUMA node associated with the last used
processor (\[oq]P\[cq]).
When -1 is displayed it means that NUMA information is not available.

\*(XC \[oq]2\[cq] and \[oq]3\[cq] \*(CIs for additional NUMA provisions
affecting the \*(SA.

.TP 4
\fBOOMa \*(Em Out of Memory Adjustment Factor \fR
The value, ranging from -1000 to +1000, added to the current out of memory
score (OOMs) which is then used to determine which task to kill when memory
is exhausted.

.TP 4
\fBOOMs \*(Em Out of Memory Score \fR
The value, ranging from 0 to +1000, used to select task(s) to kill when memory
is exhausted.
Zero translates to \[oq]never kill\[cq] whereas 1000 means \[oq]always
kill\[cq].

.TP 4
\fBP \*(Em Last used \*(PU (SMP) \fR
A number representing the last used processor.
In a true SMP environment this will likely change frequently since the kernel
intentionally uses weak affinity.
Also, the very act of running \*(We may break this weak affinity and cause more
processes to change \*(PUs more often (because of the extra demand for
\*(Pu time).

.TP 4
\fBPGRP \*(Em Process Group Id \fR
Every process is member of a unique process group which is used for
distribution of signals and by terminals to arbitrate requests for their
input and output.
When a process is created (forked), it becomes a member of the process
group of its parent.
By convention, this value equals the process ID (\*(Xa PID) of the first
member of a process group, called the process group leader.

.TP 4
\fBPID \*(Em Process Id \fR
The task's unique process ID, which periodically wraps, though never
restarting at zero.
In kernel terms, it is a dispatchable entity defined by a task_struct.

This value may also be used as: a process group ID (\*(Xa PGRP);
a session ID for the session leader (\*(Xa SID);
a thread group ID for the thread group leader (\*(Xa TGID);
and a TTY process group ID for the process group leader (\*(Xa TPGID).

.TP 4
\fBPPID \*(Em Parent Process Id \fR
The process ID (pid) of a task's parent.

.TP 4
\fBPR \*(Em Priority \fR
The scheduling priority of the task.
If you see \[oq]rt\[cq] in this field, it means the task is running
under real time scheduling priority.

Under linux, real time priority is somewhat misleading since traditionally
the operating itself was not preemptible.
And while the 2.6 kernel can be made mostly preemptible, it is not always so.

.TP 4
\fBPSS \*(Em Proportional Resident Memory, smaps (KiB) \fR
The proportion of this task's share of \[oq]RSS\[cq] where each page is
divided by the number of processes sharing it.
It is also the sum of the \[oq]PSan\[cq],
\[oq]PSfd\[cq] and \[oq]PSsh\[cq] fields.

For example,
if a process has 1000 resident pages alone and 1000 resident pages
shared with another process,
its \[oq]PSS\[cq] would be 1500 (times page size).

\*(ZX.

.PP
\fBPSan \*(Em Proportional Anonymous Memory, smaps (KiB) \fR
.br
\fBPSfd \*(Em Proportional File Memory, smaps (KiB) \fR
.br
\fBPSsh \*(Em Proportional Shmem Memory, smaps (KiB) \fR
.RS 4
As was true for \[oq]PSS\[cq] above
(total proportional resident memory),
these fields represent the proportion of this task's share of each type
of memory divided by the number of processes sharing it.

\*(ZX.
.RE

.TP 4
\fBRES \*(Em Resident Memory Size (KiB) \fR
A subset of the virtual address space (VIRT) representing the non-swapped
\*(MP a task is currently using.
It is also the sum of the \[oq]RSan\[cq],
\[oq]RSfd\[cq] and \[oq]RSsh\[cq] fields.

It can include private anonymous pages, private pages mapped to files
(including program images and shared libraries) plus shared anonymous pages.
All such memory is backed by the \*(MS represented separately under SWAP.

Lastly, this field may also include shared file-backed pages which, when
modified, act as a dedicated \*(MS and thus will never impact SWAP.

\*(XX.

.TP 4
\fBRSS \*(Em Resident Memory, smaps (KiB) \fR
Another, more precise view of process non-swapped \*(MP.
It is obtained from the \[oq]smaps_rollup\[cq] file and is
generally slightly larger than that shown for \[oq]RES\[cq].

\*(ZX.

.TP 4
\fBRSan \*(Em Resident Anonymous Memory Size (KiB) \fR
A subset of resident memory (RES) representing private pages not
mapped to a file.

.TP 4
\fBRSfd \*(Em Resident File-Backed Memory Size (KiB) \fR
A subset of resident memory (RES) representing the implicitly shared
pages supporting program images and shared libraries.
It also includes explicit file mappings, both private and shared.

.TP 4
\fBRSlk \*(Em Resident Locked Memory Size (KiB) \fR
A subset of resident memory (RES) which cannot be swapped out.

.TP 4
\fBRSsh \*(Em Resident Shared Memory Size (KiB) \fR
A subset of resident memory (RES) representing the explicitly shared
anonymous shm*/mmap pages.

.TP 4
\fBRUID \*(Em Real User Id \fR
The\fI real\fR user ID.

.TP 4
\fBRUSER \*(Em Real User Name \fR
The\fI real\fR user name.

.TP 4
\fBS \*(Em Process Status \fR
The status of the task which can be one of:
    \fBD\fR = uninterruptible sleep
    \fBI\fR = idle
    \fBR\fR = running
    \fBS\fR = sleeping
    \fBT\fR = stopped by job control signal
    \fBt\fR = stopped by debugger during trace
    \fBZ\fR = zombie

Tasks shown as running should be more properly thought of as ready to run
\*(Em their task_struct is simply represented on the Linux run-queue.
Even without a true SMP machine, you may see numerous tasks in this state
depending on \*(We's delay interval and nice value.

.TP 4
\fBSHR \*(Em Shared Memory Size (KiB) \fR
A subset of resident memory (RES) that may be used by other processes.
It will include shared anonymous pages and shared file-backed pages.
It also includes private pages mapped to files representing
program images and shared libraries.

\*(XX.

.TP 4
\fBSID \*(Em Session Id \fR
A session is a collection of process groups (\*(Xa PGRP),
usually established by the login shell.
A newly forked process joins the session of its creator.
By convention, this value equals the process ID (\*(Xa PID) of the first
member of the session, called the session leader, which is usually the
login shell.

.TP 4
\fBSTARTED \*(Em Start Time Interval\fR
The length of time since system boot when a process started.
Thus, the most recently started task will display the largest time interval.

The value will be expressed as \[oq]MM:SS\[cq] (minutes:seconds).
But if the interval is too great to fit column width it will be scaled
as \[oq]HH,MM\[cq] (hours,minutes) and possibly beyond.

.TP 4
\fBSUID \*(Em Saved User Id \fR
The\fI saved\fR user ID.

.TP 4
\fBSUPGIDS \*(Em Supplementary Group IDs \fR
The IDs of any supplementary group(s) established at login or
inherited from a task's parent.
They are displayed in a comma delimited list.

\*(NT The SUPGIDS field, unlike most columns, is not fixed-width.
When displayed, it plus any other variable width columns will be allocated
all remaining screen width (up to the maximum \*(WX characters).

.TP 4
\fBSUPGRPS \*(Em Supplementary Group Names \fR
The names of any supplementary group(s) established at login or
inherited from a task's parent.
They are displayed in a comma delimited list.

\*(NT The SUPGRPS field, unlike most columns, is not fixed-width.
When displayed, it plus any other variable width columns will be allocated
all remaining screen width (up to the maximum \*(WX characters).

.TP 4
\fBSUSER \*(Em Saved User Name \fR
The\fI saved\fR user name.

.TP 4
\fBSWAP \*(Em Swapped Size (KiB) \fR
The formerly resident portion of a task's address space written
to the \*(MS when \*(MP becomes over committed.

\*(XX.

.TP 4
\fBTGID \*(Em Thread Group Id \fR
The ID of the thread group to which a task belongs.
It is the PID of the thread group leader.
In kernel terms, it represents those tasks that share an mm_struct.

.TP 4
\fBTIME \*(Em \*(PU Time \fR
Total \*(PU time the task has used since it started.
When Cumulative mode is \*O, each process is listed with the \*(Pu
time that it and its dead children have used.
You toggle Cumulative mode with \[oq]S\[cq],
which is both a \*(CO and an \*(CI.
\*(XC \[oq]S\[cq] \*(CI for additional information regarding this mode.

.TP 4
\fBTIME+ \*(Em \*(PU Time, hundredths \fR
The same as TIME, but reflecting more granularity through hundredths
of a second.

.TP 4
\fBTPGID \*(Em Tty Process Group Id \fR
The process group ID of the foreground process for the connected tty,
or \-1 if a process is not connected to a terminal.
By convention, this value equals the process ID (\*(Xa PID) of the
process group leader (\*(Xa PGRP).

.TP 4
\fBTTY \*(Em Controlling Tty \fR
The name of the controlling terminal.
This is usually the device (serial port, pty, etc.) from which the
process was started, and which it uses for input or output.
However, a task need not be associated with a terminal, in which case
you'll see \[oq]?\[cq] displayed.

.TP 4
\fBUID \*(Em User Id \fR
The\fI effective\fR user ID of the task's owner.

.TP 4
\fBUSED \*(Em Memory in Use (KiB) \fR
This field represents the non-swapped \*(MP a task is using (RES) plus
the swapped out portion of its address space (SWAP).

\*(XX.

.TP 4
\fBUSER \*(Em User Name \fR
The\fI effective\fR user name of the task's owner.

.TP 4
\fBUSS \*(Em Unique Set Size \fR
The non-swapped portion of \*(MP (\[oq]RSS\[cq]) not shared with
any other process.
It is derived from the \[oq]smaps_rollup\[cq] file.

\*(ZX.

.TP 4
\fBVIRT \*(Em Virtual Memory Size (KiB) \fR
The total amount of \*(MV used by the task.
It includes all code, data and shared libraries plus pages that have been
swapped out and pages that have been mapped but not used.

\*(XX.

.TP 4
\fBWCHAN \*(Em Sleeping in Function \fR
This field will show the name of the kernel function in which the task
is currently sleeping.
Running tasks will display a dash (\[oq]\-\[cq]) in this column.

.TP 4
\fBioR \*(Em I/O Bytes Read \fR
The number of bytes a process caused to be fetched from the storage layer.

Root privileges are required to display \[oq]io\[cq] data for other
users.

.TP 4
\fBioRop \*(Em I/O Read Operations \fR
The number of read I/O operations (syscalls) for a process.
Such calls might not result in actual physical disk I/O.

.TP 4
\fBioW \*(Em I/O Bytes Written \fR
The number of bytes a process caused to be sent to the storage layer.

.TP 4
\fBioWop \*(Em I/O Write Operations \fR
The number of write I/O operations (syscalls) for a process.
Such calls might not result in actual physical disk I/O.

.TP 4
\fBnDRT \*(Em Dirty Pages Count \fR
The number of pages that have been modified since they were last
written to \*(AS.
Dirty pages must be written to \*(AS before the corresponding physical
memory location can be used for some other virtual page.

This field was deprecated with linux 2.6 and is always zero.

.TP 4
\fBnFD \*(Em Number of File Descriptors \fR
The total number of open files associated with a process.

.TP 4
\fBnMaj \*(Em Major Page Fault Count \fR
The number of\fB major\fR page faults that have occurred for a task.
A page fault occurs when a process attempts to read from or write to a
virtual page that is not currently present in its address space.
A major page fault is when \*(AS access is involved in making that
page available.

.TP 4
\fBnMin \*(Em Minor Page Fault count \fR
The number of\fB minor\fR page faults that have occurred for a task.
A page fault occurs when a process attempts to read from or write to a
virtual page that is not currently present in its address space.
A minor page fault does not involve \*(AS access in making that
page available.

.TP 4
\fBnTH \*(Em Number of Threads \fR
The number of threads associated with a process.

.TP 4
\fBnsCGROUP \*(Em CGROUP namespace \fR
The Inode of the namespace used to hide the identity of the control group of
which process is a member.

.TP 4
\fBnsIPC \*(Em IPC namespace \fR
The Inode of the namespace used to isolate interprocess communication (IPC)
resources such as System V IPC objects and POSIX message queues.

.TP 4
\fBnsMNT \*(Em MNT namespace \fR
The Inode of the namespace used to isolate filesystem mount points thus
offering different views of the filesystem hierarchy.

.TP 4
\fBnsNET \*(Em NET namespace \fR
The Inode of the namespace used to isolate resources such as network devices,
IP addresses, IP routing, port numbers, etc.

.TP 4
\fBnsPID \*(Em PID namespace \fR
The Inode of the namespace used to isolate process ID numbers
meaning they need not remain unique.
Thus,
each such namespace could have its own \[oq]init/systemd\[cq] (PID #1)
to manage various initialization tasks and reap orphaned child
processes.

.TP 4
\fBnsTIME \*(Em TIME namespace \fR
The Inode of the namespace which allows processes to see different system
times in a way similar to the UTS namespace.

.TP 4
\fBnsUSER \*(Em USER namespace \fR
The Inode of the namespace used to isolate the user and group ID numbers.
Thus, a process could have a normal unprivileged user ID outside a user
namespace while having a user ID of 0, with full root privileges, inside
that namespace.

.TP 4
\fBnsUTS \*(Em UTS namespace \fR
The Inode of the namespace used to isolate hostname and NIS domain name.
UTS simply means "Unix Time-sharing System".

.TP 4
\fBvMj \*(Em Major Page Fault Count Delta\fR
The number of\fB major\fR page faults that have occurred since the
last update (see nMaj).

.TP 4
\fBvMn \*(Em Minor Page Fault Count Delta\fR
The number of\fB minor\fR page faults that have occurred since the
last update (see nMin).

.\" ......................................................................
.SS 3b. MANAGING Fields
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
After pressing the \*(CI \[oq]f\[cq] (Fields Management) you will be
presented with a screen showing:
1) the \*(CW name;
2) the designated sort field;
3) all fields in their current order along with descriptions.
Entries marked with an asterisk are the currently displayed fields,
screen width permitting.

.RS +4
.IP \(bu 3
As the on screen instructions indicate, you navigate among the fields with
the\fB Up\fR and\fB Down\fR \*(KAs.
The PgUp, PgDn, Home and End keys can also be used to quickly reach the
first or last available field.

.IP \(bu 3
The\fB Right\fR \*(KA selects a field for repositioning and
the\fB Left\fR \*(KA or the <\fBEnter\fR> key commits that field's
placement.

.IP \(bu 3
The \[oq]\fBd\fR\[cq] key or the <\fBSpace\fR> bar toggles a field's
display status,
and thus the presence or absence of the asterisk.

.IP \(bu 3
The \[oq]\fBs\fR\[cq] key designates a field as the sort field.
\*(XT 4c. TASK AREA Commands, SORTING for additional information regarding
your selection of a sort field.

.IP \(bu 3
The \[oq]\fBa\fR\[cq] and \[oq]\fBw\fR\[cq] keys can be used to cycle
through all available windows and the \[oq]\fBq\fR\[cq] or <\fBEsc\fR>
keys exit Fields Management.
.RS -4

.PP
The Fields Management screen can also be used to change the \*(CG in
either \*(FM or \*(AM.
Whatever was targeted when \[oq]q\[cq] or <Esc> was pressed will be made
current as you return to the \*(We display.
\*(XT 5. ALTERNATE\-DISPLAY Provisions and the \[oq]g\[cq] \*(CI for
insight into \*(CWs and \*(FGs.

.PP
\*(NT Any window that has been scrolled\fI horizontally\fR will be reset if any
field changes are made via the Fields Management screen.
Any\fI vertical\fR scrolled position, however, will not be affected.
\*(XT 5c. SCROLLING a Window for additional information regarding vertical
and horizontal scrolling.

.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH 4. INTERACTIVE Commands
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Listed below is a brief index of commands within categories.
Some commands appear more than once \*(Em their meaning or scope may vary
depending on the context in which they are issued.

.nf
  4a.\fI Global-Commands \fR
        <Ent/Sp> ?, =, 0,
        A, B, d, E, e, g, H, h, I, k, q, r, s, W, X, Y, Z,
        ^E, ^R
  4b.\fI Summary-Area-Commands \fR
        C, l, t, m, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, !
  4c.\fI Task-Area-Commands \fR
        Appearance:  b, J, j, x, y, z
        Content:     c, F, f, O, o, S, U, u, V, v
        Size:        #, i, n
        Sorting:     <, >, f, R
  4d.\fI Bottom-Window-Commands \fR
        ^A, ^G, ^K, ^L, ^N, ^P, ^U, Tab, Shift+Tab
  4e.\fI Color-Mapping \fR
        <Ret>, a, B, b, H, M, q, S, T, w, z, @, 0 \- 7
  5b.\fI Commands-for-Windows \fR
        \-, _, =, +, A, a, G, g, w
  5c.\fI Scrolling-a-Window \fR
        C, Up, Dn, Left, Right, PgUp, PgDn, Home, End
  5d.\fI Searching-in-a-Window \fR
        L, &
  5e.\fI Filtering-in-a-Window \fR
        O, o, ^O, =, +
.fi

.\" ......................................................................
.SS 4a. GLOBAL Commands
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
The global \*(CIs are\fB always\fR available\fR in both \*(FM and \*(AM.
However, some of these \*(CIs are\fB not available\fR when running
in Secure mode.

If you wish to know in advance whether or not your \*(We has been
secured, simply ask for help and view the system summary on the second
line.

.TP 7
\ \ <\fBEnter\fR> or <\fBSpace\fR>\ \ :\fIRefresh-Display \fR
These commands awaken \*(We and following receipt of any input
the entire display will be repainted.
They also force an update of any hotplugged \*(Pu or \*(MP changes.

Use either of these keys if you have a large delay interval and wish
to see current status,

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fB?\fR | \fBh\fR\ \ :\fIHelp \fR
There are two help levels available.
The first will provide a reminder of all the basic \*(CIs.
If \*(We is\fI secured\fR, that screen will be abbreviated.

Typing \[oq]h\[cq] or \[oq]?\[cq] on that help screen will take you to
help for those \*(CIs applicable to \*(AM.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fB=\fR\ \ :\fIExit-Display-Limits \fR
Removes restrictions on what is shown.
This command will reverse any \[oq]i\[cq] (idle tasks),
\[oq]n\[cq] (max tasks),
\[oq]v\[cq] (hide children) and \[oq]F\[cq] focus commands that might be
active.
It also provides for an exit from PID monitoring, User filtering,
Other filtering, Locate processing and Combine Cpus mode.

Additionally, if the window has been scrolled it will be reset with
this command.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fB0\fR\ \ :\fIZero-Suppress\fR toggle \fR
This command determines whether zeros are shown or suppressed for many
of the fields in a \*(TW.
Fields like UID, GID, NI, PR or P are not affected by this toggle.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBA\fR\ \ :\fIAlternate-Display-Mode\fR toggle \fR
This command will switch between \*(FM and \*(AM.
\*(XT 5. ALTERNATE\-DISPLAY Provisions and the \[oq]g\[cq] \*(CI for
insight into \*(CWs and \*(FGs.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBB\fR\ \ :\fIBold-Disable/Enable\fR toggle \fR
This command will influence use of the bold terminfo capability and
alters\fB both\fR the \*(SA and \*(TA for the \*(CW.
While it is intended primarily for use with dumb terminals, it can be
applied anytime.

\*(NT When this toggle is \*O and \*(We is operating in monochrome mode,
the\fB entire display\fR will appear as normal text.
Thus,
unless the \[oq]x\[cq] and/or \[oq]y\[cq] toggles are using reverse for
emphasis,
there will be no visual confirmation that they are even on.

.TP 7
*\ \ \fBd\fR | \fBs\fR\ \ :\fIChange-Delay-Time-interval \fR
You will be prompted to enter the delay time, in seconds, between
display updates.

Fractional seconds are honored, but a negative number is not allowed.
Entering 0 causes (nearly) continuous updates, with an unsatisfactory
display as the system and tty driver try to keep up with \*(We's demands.
The delay value is inversely proportional to system loading,
so set it with care.

If at any time you wish to know the current delay time, simply ask for
help and view the system summary on the second line.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBE\fR\ \ :\fIEnforce-Summary-Memory-Scale\fR in Summary Area
With this command you can cycle through the available \*(SA memory scaling
which ranges from KiB (kibibytes or 1,024 bytes) through EiB (exbibytes or
1,152,921,504,606,846,976 bytes).

If you see a \[oq]+\[cq] between a displayed number and the following
label,
it means that \*(We was forced to truncate some portion of that number.
By raising the scaling factor, such truncation can be avoided.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBe\fR\ \ :\fIEnforce-Task-Memory-Scale\fR in Task Area
With this command you can cycle through the available \*(TA memory scaling
which ranges from KiB (kibibytes or 1,024 bytes) through PiB (pebibytes or
1,125,899,906,842,624 bytes).

While \*(We will try to honor the selected target range, additional
scaling might still be necessary in order to accommodate current values.
If you wish to see a more homogeneous result in the memory columns,
raising the scaling range will usually accomplish that goal.
Raising it too high, however, is likely to produce an all zero result
which cannot be suppressed with the \[oq]0\[cq] \*(CI.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBg\fR\ \ :\fIChoose-Another-Window/Field-Group \fR
You will be prompted to enter a number between 1 and 4 designating the
\*(FG which should be made the \*(CW.
You will soon grow comfortable with these 4 windows, especially after
experimenting with \*(AM.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBH\fR\ \ :\fIThreads-mode\fR toggle \fR
When this toggle is \*O, individual threads will be displayed for all
processes in all visible \*(TWs.
Otherwise, \*(We displays a summation of all threads in each process.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBI\fR\ \ :\fIIrix/Solaris-Mode\fR toggle \fR
When operating in Solaris mode
(\[oq]I\[cq] toggled \*F),
a task's \*(Pu usage will be divided by the total number of \*(PUs.
After issuing this command, you'll be told the new state of this toggle.

.TP 7
*\ \ \fBk\fR\ \ :\fIKill-a-task \fR
You will be prompted for a PID and then the signal to send.

Entering no PID or a negative number will be interpreted as
the default shown in the prompt (the first task displayed).
A PID value of zero means the \*(We program itself.

The default signal, as reflected in the prompt, is SIGTERM.
However, you can send any signal, via number or name.

If you wish to abort the kill process, do one of the following
depending on your progress:
.nf
    1) at the pid prompt, type an invalid number
    2) at the signal prompt, type 0 (or any invalid signal)
    3) at any prompt, type <Esc>
.fi

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBq\fR\ \ :\fIQuit \fR

.TP 7
*\ \ \fBr\fR\ \ :\fIRenice-a-Task \fR
You will be prompted for a PID and then the value to nice it to.

Entering no PID or a negative number will be interpreted as
the default shown in the prompt (the first task displayed).
A PID value of zero means the \*(We program itself.

A positive nice value will cause a process to lose priority.
Conversely, a negative nice value will cause a process to be viewed
more favorably by the kernel.
As a general rule, ordinary users can only increase the nice value
and are prevented from lowering it.

If you wish to abort the renice process, do one of the following
depending on your progress:
.nf
    1) at the pid prompt, type an invalid number
    2) at the nice prompt, type <Enter> with no input
    3) at any prompt, type <Esc>
.fi

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBW\fR\ \ :\fIWrite-the-Configuration-File \fR
This will save all of your options and toggles plus the current
display mode and delay time.
By issuing this command just before quitting \*(We, you will be able
restart later in exactly that same state.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBX\fR\ \ :\fIExtra-Fixed-Width \fR
Some fields are fixed width and not scalable.
As such, they are subject to truncation which would be indicated
by a \[oq]+\[cq] in the last position.

This \*(CI can be used to alter the widths of the following fields:

.nf
   \fI field  default    field  default    field   default \fR
    GID       5       Docker    8       WCHAN      10
    LOGID     5       GROUP     8       nsCGROUP   10
    RUID      5       LXC       8       nsIPC      10
    SUID      5       RUSER     8       nsMNT      10
    UID       5       SUSER     8       nsNET      10
                      TTY       8       nsPID      10
                      USER      8       nsTIME     10
                                        nsUSER     10
                                        nsUTS      10
.fi

You will be prompted for the amount to be added to the default
widths shown above.
Entering zero forces a return to those defaults.

If you enter a negative number, \*(We will automatically increase
the column size as needed until there is no more truncated data.

\*(NT Whether explicitly or automatically increased, the widths for
these fields are never decreased by \*(We.
To narrow them you must specify a smaller number or restore the defaults.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBY\fR\ \ :\fIInspect-Other-Output \fR
After issuing the \[oq]Y\[cq] \*(CI,
you will be prompted for a target PID.
Typing a value or accepting the default results in a separate screen.
That screen can be used to view a variety of files or piped command output
while the normal \*(We iterative display is paused.

\*(NT This \*(CI is only fully realized when supporting entries have been
manually added to the end of the \*(We \*(CF.
For details on creating those entries, \*(Xt 6b. ADDING INSPECT Entries.

Most of the keys used to navigate the Inspect feature are reflected in
its header prologue.
There are, however, additional keys available once you have selected a
particular file or command.
They are familiar to anyone who has used the pager \[oq]less\[cq] and
are summarized here for future reference.

.nf
   \fI key      function \fR
    =        alternate status\-line, file or pipeline
    /        find, equivalent to \[oq]L\[cq] locate
    n        find next, equivalent to \[oq]&\[cq] locate next
    <Space>  scroll down, equivalent to <PgDn>
    b        scroll up, equivalent to <PgUp>
    g        first line, equivalent to <Home>
    G        last line, equivalent to <End>
.fi

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBZ\fR\ \ :\fIChange-Color-Mapping \fR
This key will take you to a separate screen where you can change the
colors for the \*(CW, or for all windows.
For details regarding this \*(CI \*(Xt 4e. COLOR Mapping.

.TP 7
\ \ \fB^E\fR\ \ :\fIScale-CPU-Time-fields\fR (Ctrl key + \[oq]e\[cq])
The \[oq]time\[cq] fields are normally displayed with the greatest
precision their widths permit.
This toggle reduces that precision until it wraps.
It also illustrates the scaling those fields \fImight\fR experience
automatically, which usually depends on how long the system runs.

For example, if \[oq]MMM:SS.hh\[cq] is shown,
each ^E keystroke would change it to:
\[oq]MM:SS\[cq],
\[oq]Hours,MM\[cq],
\[oq]Days+Hours\[cq] and finally \[oq]Weeks+Days\[cq].

Not all time fields are subject to the full range of such scaling.

.TP 7
*\ \fB^R\fR\ \ :\fIRenice-an-Autogroup \fR (Ctrl key + \[oq]r\[cq])
You will be prompted for a PID and then the value for its
autogroup AGNI.

Entering no PID will be interpreted as the default shown in
the prompt (the first task displayed).

A positive AGNI value will cause processes in that autogroup
to lose priority.
Conversely, a negative value causes them to be viewed more
favorably by the kernel.
Ordinary users are not allowed to set negative AGNI values.

If you wish to abort the renice process type <Esc>.

.IP "*" 3
The commands shown with an \*(AK are not available in Secure mode,
nor will they be shown on the level-1 help screen.

.\" ......................................................................
.SS 4b. SUMMARY AREA Commands
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
The \*(SA \*(CIs are\fB always available\fR in both \*(FM and \*(AM.
They affect the beginning lines of your display and will determine the
position of messages and prompts.

These commands always impact just the \*(CG.
\*(XT 5. ALTERNATE\-DISPLAY Provisions and the \[oq]g\[cq] \*(CI for
insight into \*(CWs and \*(FGs.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBC\fR\ \ :\fIShow-scroll-coordinates\fR toggle \fR
Toggle an informational message which is displayed whenever the message
line is not otherwise being used.
For additional information \*(Xt 5c. SCROLLING a Window.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBl\fR\ \ :\fILoad-Average/Uptime\fR toggle \fR
This is also the line containing the program name (possibly an alias)
when operating in \*(FM or the \*(CW name when operating in \*(AM.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBt\fR\ \ :\fITask/Cpu-States\fR toggle \fR
This command affects from 2 to many \*(SA lines,
depending on the state of the \[oq]1\[cq],
\[oq]2\[cq] or \[oq]3\[cq] \*(CTs and whether or not \*(We is running
under true SMP.

This portion of the \*(SA is also influenced by the \[oq]H\[cq] \*(CI
toggle, as reflected in the total label which shows either Tasks or
Threads.

This command serves as a 4-way toggle, cycling through these modes:
.nf
    1. detailed percentages by category
    2. abbreviated user/system and total % + bar graph
    3. abbreviated user/system and total % + block graph
    4. turn off task and cpu states display
.fi

When operating in either of the graphic modes, the display becomes much
more meaningful when individual CPUs or NUMA nodes are also displayed.
\*(XC the \[oq]1\[cq],
\[oq]2\[cq] and \[oq]3\[cq] commands below for additional information.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBm\fR\ \ :\fIMemory/Swap-Usage\fR toggle \fR
This command affects the two \*(SA lines dealing with physical
and virtual memory.

This command serves as a 4-way toggle, cycling through these modes:
.nf
    1. detailed percentages by memory type
    2. abbreviated % used/total available + bar graph
    3. abbreviated % used/total available + block graph
    4. turn off memory display
.fi

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fB1\fR\ \ :\fISingle/Separate-Cpu-States\fR toggle \fR
This command affects how the \[oq]t\[cq] command's Cpu States portion is
shown.
Although this toggle exists primarily to serve massively-parallel SMP
machines, it is not restricted to solely SMP environments.

When you see \[oq]%Cpu(s):\[cq] in the \*(SA,
the \[oq]1\[cq] toggle is \*O and all \*(Pu information is gathered in a
single line.
Otherwise, each \*(Pu is displayed separately as:
\[oq]%Cpu0, %Cpu1, .\|.\|.\[cq] up to available screen height.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fB2\fR\ \ :\fINUMA-Nodes/Cpu-Summary\fR toggle \fR
This command toggles between the \[oq]1\[cq] command cpu summary display
(only)
or a summary display plus the cpu usage statistics for each NUMA Node.
It is only available if a system has the requisite NUMA support.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fB3\fR\ \ :\fIExpand-NUMA-Node \fR
You will be invited to enter a number representing a NUMA Node.
Thereafter, a node summary plus the statistics for each cpu in that
node will be shown until the \[oq]1\[cq],
\[oq]2\[cq] or \[oq]4\[cq] \*(CT is pressed.
This \*(CI is only available if a system has the requisite NUMA support.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fB4\fR\ \ :\fIDisplay-Multiple-Elements-Adjacent\fR toggle \fR
This \*(CT turns the \[oq]1\[cq] toggle \*F and shows multiple \*(PU and
Memory results on each line.
Each successive \[oq]4\[cq] key adds another \*(PU until again reverting
to separate lines for \*(PU and Memory results.

A maximum of 8 \*(PUs per line can be displayed in this manner.
However, data truncation may occur before reaching the maximum.
That is definitely true when displaying detailed statistics via
the \[oq]t\[cq] \*(CT since such data cannot be scaled like the graphic
representations.

If one wished to quickly exit adjacent mode without cycling all the
way to 8, simply use the \[oq]1\[cq] \*(CT.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fB5\fR\ \ :\fIDisplay-P-Cores-and-E-Cores\fR toggle \fR
This \*(CT is only active when the \[oq]t\[cq] toggle is \*O and the
\[oq]1\[cq],
\[oq]2\[cq],
\[oq]3\[cq] and \[oq]!\[cq] toggles are \*F,
thus showing individual \*(PU results.
It assumes a platform has multiple cores of two distinct types,
either multi-threaded (P-Core) or single-threaded (E-Core).

While normally each \*(Pu is displayed as
\[oq]%Cpu0, %Cpu1, .\|.\|.\[cq],
this toggle can be used to identify and/or filter those \*(Pus by their
core type, either P-Core (performance) or E-Core (efficient).

The 1st time \[oq]5\[cq] is struck,
each \*(PU is displayed as \[oq]%Cp\fBP\fR\[cq] or \[oq]%Cp\fBE\fR\[cq]
representing the two core types.
The 2nd time, only P-Cores (%Cp\fBP\fR) will be shown.
The 3rd time, only E-Cores (%Cp\fBE\fR) are displayed.
When this \*(CT is struck for the 4th time, the \*(PU display
returns to the normal \[oq]%Cpu\[cq] convention.

If separate\fI performance\fR and\fI efficient\fR categories are
not present, this \*(CT will have no effect.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fB!\fR\ \ :\fICombine-Cpus-Mode\fR toggle \fR
This \*(CT is intended for massively parallel SMP environments where,
even with the \[oq]4\[cq] \*(CT,
not all processors can be displayed.
With each press of \[oq]!\[cq] the number of \*(Pus combined is doubled
thus reducing the total number of \*(Pu lines displayed.

For example, with the first press of \[oq]!\[cq] two \*(Pus will be
combined and displayed as
\[oq]0-1, 2-3, .\|.\|.\[cq] instead of the normal
\[oq]%Cpu0, %Cpu1, %Cpu2, %Cpu3, .\|.\|.\[cq].
With a second \[oq]!\[cq] \*(CT four \*(Pus are combined and shown as
\[oq]0-3, 4-7, .\|.\|.\[cq].
Then the third \[oq]!\[cq] press,
combining eight \*(Pus, shows as \[oq]0-7, 8-15, .\|.\|.\[cq],
etc.

Such progression continues until individual \*(Pus are again displayed
and impacts both the \[oq]1\[cq] and \[oq]4\[cq] toggles
(one or multiple columns).
Use the \[oq]=\[cq] command to exit \fBCombine Cpus\fR mode.

.PP
\*(NT If the entire \*(SA has been toggled \*F for any window, you would
be left with just the\fB message line\fR.
In that way, you will have maximized available task rows but (temporarily)
sacrificed the program name in \*(FM or the \*(CW name when in \*(AM.

.\" ......................................................................
.SS 4c. TASK AREA Commands
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
The \*(TA \*(CIs are\fB always\fR available in \*(FM.

The \*(TA \*(CIs are\fB never available\fR in \*(AM\fI if\fR the \*(CW's
\*(TD has been toggled \*F (\*(Xt 5. ALTERNATE\-DISPLAY Provisions).

.\" ..................................................
.PP
.B APPEARANCE\fR of \*(TW

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBJ\fR\ \ :\fIJustify-Numeric-Columns\fR toggle \fR
Alternates between right-justified (the default) and
left-justified numeric data.
If the numeric data completely fills the available column, this
\*(CT may impact the column header only.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBj\fR\ \ :\fIJustify-Character-Columns\fR toggle \fR
Alternates between left-justified (the default) and
right-justified character data.
If the character data completely fills the available column, this
\*(CT may impact the column header only.

.PP
.RS +2
The following commands will also be influenced by the state of the
global \[oq]B\[cq] (bold enable) toggle.
.RS -2

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBb\fR\ \ :\fIBold/Reverse\fR toggle \fR
This command will impact how the \[oq]x\[cq] and \[oq]y\[cq] toggles are
displayed.
It may also impact the \*(SA when a bar graph has been selected for
\*(Pu states or memory usage via the \[oq]t\[cq] or \[oq]m\[cq] toggles.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBx\fR\ \ :\fIColumn-Highlight\fR toggle \fR
Changes highlighting for the current sort field.
If you forget which field is being sorted this command can serve as a quick
visual reminder, providing the sort field is being displayed.
The sort field might\fI not\fR be visible because:
    1) there is insufficient\fI Screen Width \fR
    2) the \[oq]f\[cq] \*(CI turned it \*F

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBy\fR\ \ :\fIRow-Highlight\fR toggle \fR
Changes highlighting for "running" tasks.
For additional insight into this task state,
\*(Xt 3a. DESCRIPTIONS of Fields,
the \[oq]S\[cq] field (Process Status).

Use of this provision provides important insight into your system's health.
The only costs will be a few additional tty escape sequences.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBz\fR\ \ :\fIColor/Monochrome\fR toggle \fR
Switches the \*(CW between your last used color scheme and the older form
of black-on-white or white-on-black.
This command will alter\fB both\fR the \*(SA and \*(TA but does not affect
the state of the \[oq]x\[cq],
\[oq]y\[cq] or \[oq]b\[cq] toggles.

.\" ..................................................
.PP
.B CONTENT\fR of \*(TW

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBc\fR\ \ :\fICommand-Line/Program-Name\fR toggle \fR
This command will be honored whether or not the COMMAND column
is currently visible.
Later, should that field come into view, the change you applied will be seen.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBF\fR\ \ :\fIMaintain-Parent-Focus\fR toggle \fR
When in forest view mode, this key serves as a toggle to retain focus
on a target task, presumably one with forked children.
If forest view mode is \*F this key has no effect.

The toggle is applied to the first (topmost) process in the \*(CW.
Once established, that task is always displayed as the first (topmost)
process along with its forked children.
All other processes will be suppressed.

\*(NT keys like \[oq]i\[cq] (idle tasks),
\[oq]n\[cq] (max tasks), \[oq]v\[cq] (hide children)
and User/Other filtering remain accessible and can impact what is displayed.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBf\fR\ \ :\fIFields-Management \fR
This key displays a separate screen where you can change which fields are
displayed, their order and also designate the sort field.
For additional information on this \*(CI
\*(Xt 3b. MANAGING Fields.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBO\fR | \fBo\fR\ \ :\fIOther-Filtering \fR
You will be prompted for the selection criteria which then determines
which tasks will be shown in the \*(CW.
Your criteria can be made case sensitive or case can be ignored.
And you determine if \*(We should include or exclude matching tasks.

\*(XT 5e. FILTERING in a window for details on these and additional
related \*(CIs.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBS\fR\ \ :\fICumulative-Time-Mode\fR toggle \fR
When Cumulative mode is \*O, each process is listed with the \*(Pu
time that it and its dead children have used.

When \*F, programs that fork into many separate tasks will appear
less demanding.
For programs like \[oq]init\[cq] or a shell this is appropriate but for
others,
like compilers, perhaps not.
Experiment with two \*(TWs sharing the same sort field but with
different \[oq]S\[cq] states and see which representation you prefer.

After issuing this command, you'll be informed of the new state of this toggle.
If you wish to know in advance whether or not Cumulative mode is in
effect, simply ask for help and view the window summary on the second line.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBU\fR | \fBu\fR\ \ :\fIShow-Specific-User-Only \fR
You will be prompted for the\fB uid\fR or\fB name\fR of the user to display.
The \-u option matches on \fB effective\fR user whereas the \-U option
matches on\fB any\fR user (real, effective, saved, or filesystem).

Thereafter, in that \*(TW only matching users will be shown, or possibly
no processes will be shown.
Prepending an exclamation point (\[oq]!\[cq]) to the user id or name
instructs \*(We to display only processes with users not matching the
one provided.

Different \*(TWs can be used to filter different users.
Later, if you wish to monitor all users again in the \*(CW, re-issue this
command but just press <Enter> at the prompt.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBV\fR\ \ :\fIForest-View-Mode\fR toggle \fR
In this mode, processes are reordered according to their parents and
the layout of the COMMAND column resembles that of a tree.
In forest view mode it is still possible to toggle between program
name and command line (\*(Xc \[oq]c\[cq] \*(CI) or between processes and
threads (\*(Xc \[oq]H\[cq] \*(CI).

\*(NT Typing any key affecting the sort order will exit forest view
mode in the \*(CW.
\*(XT 4c. TASK AREA Commands, SORTING for information on those keys.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBv\fR\ \ :\fIHide/Show-Children\fR toggle \fR
When in forest view mode, this key serves as a toggle to collapse or
expand the children of a parent.

The toggle is applied against the first (topmost) process in the \*(CW.
\*(XT 5c. SCROLLING a Window for additional information regarding
vertical scrolling.

If the target process has not forked any children, this key has no effect.
It also has no effect when not in forest view mode.

.\" ..................................................
.PP
.B SIZE\fR of \*(TW

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBi\fR\ \ :\fIIdle-Process\fR toggle \fR
Displays all tasks or just active tasks.
When this toggle is \*F, tasks that have not used any \*(PU since the
last update will not be displayed.
However, due to the granularity of the %CPU and TIME+ fields,
some processes may still be displayed that\fI appear\fR to have
used\fI no\fR \*(PU.

If this command is applied to the last \*(TD when in \*(AM, then it will not
affect the window's size, as all prior \*(TDs will have already been painted.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBn\fR | \fB#\fR\ \ :\fISet-Maximum-Tasks \fR
You will be prompted to enter the number of tasks to display.
The lessor of your number and available screen rows will be used.

When used in \*(AM, this is the command that gives you precise control over
the size of each currently visible \*(TD, except for the very last.
It will not affect the last window's size, as all prior \*(TDs will have
already been painted.

\*(NT If you wish to increase the size of the last visible \*(TD when in \*(AM,
simply decrease the size of the \*(TD(s) above it.

.\" ..................................................
.PP
.B SORTING\fR of \*(TW
.PP
.RS +3
For compatibility, this \*(We supports most of the former \*(We sort keys.
Since this is primarily a service to former \*(We users, these commands do
not appear on any help screen.
.nf
     \fI command   sorted-field                  supported \fR
      A         start time (non-display)     \fB No \fR
      M         %MEM                          Yes
      N         PID                           Yes
      P         %CPU                          Yes
      T         TIME+                         Yes
.fi

Before using any of the following sort provisions,
\*(We suggests that you temporarily turn on column highlighting using
the \[oq]x\[cq] \*(CI.
That will help ensure that the actual sort environment matches your intent.

The following \*(CIs will\fB only\fR be honored when the current sort field
is\fB visible\fR.
The sort field might\fI not\fR be visible because:
      1) there is insufficient\fI Screen Width \fR
      2) the \[oq]f\[cq] \*(CI turned it \*F

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fB<\fR\ \ :\fIMove-Sort-Field-Left \fR
Moves the sort column to the left unless the current sort field is
the first field being displayed.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fB>\fR\ \ :\fIMove-Sort-Field-Right \fR
Moves the sort column to the right unless the current sort field is
the last field being displayed.

.PP
The following \*(CIs will\fB always\fR be honored whether or not
the current sort field is visible.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBf\fR\ \ :\fIFields-Management \fR
This key displays a separate screen where you can change which field
is used as the sort column, among other functions.
This can be a convenient way to simply verify the current sort field,
when running \*(We with column highlighting turned \*F.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBR\fR\ \ :\fIReverse/Normal-Sort-Field\fR toggle \fR
Using this \*(CI you can alternate between high-to-low and low-to-high sorts.

.\" ......................................................................
.SS 4d. BOTTOM WINDOW Commands
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
These keys invoke a separate window at the bottom of the screen while
normal \*(We monitoring continues uninterrupted.
Keying the\fI same\fR \[oq]Ctrl\[cq] command a second time removes that
separate window as does the \[oq]=\[cq] command.

.P
\ \ \ \fB^A\fR\ \ :\fIDisplay-Capabilities \fR         (Ctrl key + \[oq]a\[cq])
.br
\ \ \ \fB^G\fR\ \ :\fIDisplay-Control-Groups \fR       (Ctrl key + \[oq]g\[cq])
.br
\ \ \ \fB^K\fR\ \ :\fIDisplay-Cmdline \fR              (Ctrl key + \[oq]k\[cq])
.br
\ \ \ \fB^L\fR\ \ :\fIDisplay-Logged-Messages \fR      (Ctrl key + \[oq]l\[cq])
.br
\ \ \ \fB^N\fR\ \ :\fIDisplay-Environment \fR          (Ctrl key + \[oq]n\[cq])
.br
\ \ \ \fB^P\fR\ \ :\fIDisplay-Namesspaces \fR          (Ctrl key + \[oq]p\[cq])
.br
\ \ \ \fB^U\fR\ \ :\fIDisplay-Supplementary-Groups \fR (Ctrl key + \[oq]u\[cq])
.br

Except for the Ctrl+L command, all the above keys are applied to the first
process displayed and will show that task's full (potentially wrapped) information.
Thus, the Up/Down \*(KAs or their aliases will be important.

The \fBTab\fR key or \fBShift+Tab\fR combination can be used to highlight individual
elements being displayed in the bottom window.

Notable among these provisions is the Ctrl+N (environment) command.
Its output can be extensive and not easily read when line wrapped.
A more readable version can be achieved with an \[oq]Inspect\[cq] entry
in the rcfile like the following.

.nf
    pipe ^I Environment ^I cat /proc/%d/environ | tr '\\0' '\\n'
.fi

\*(XC \[oq]Y\[cq] \*(CI under 4a. GLOBAL Commands and topic
6b. ADDING INSPECT Entries for additional information.

Unlike the other commands, \fBCtrl+L\fR (logged messages) is not associated
with a specific task.
Rather, up to 10 of the most recent messages issued by \*(We are
recalled for review.

.\" ......................................................................
.SS 4e. COLOR Mapping
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
When you issue the \[oq]Z\[cq] \*(CI,
you will be presented with a separate screen.
That screen can be used to change the colors in just the \*(CW or
in all four windows before returning to the \*(We display.

.P
The following \*(CIs are available.
.nf
    \fB5\fR upper case letters to select a\fB target \fR
    \fB8\fR numbers to select a\fB color\fR (@ selects no color)\fR
    normal toggles available \fR
        B         :bold disable/enable
        b         :running tasks "bold"/reverse
        z         :color/mono
    other commands available \fR
        a/w       :apply, then go to next/prior
        <Enter>   :apply and exit
        q         :abandon current changes and exit
.fi

If you use \[oq]a\[cq] or \[oq]w\[cq] to cycle the targeted window,
you will have applied the color scheme that was displayed when you left
that window.
You can, of course, easily return to any window and reapply different
colors or turn colors \*F completely with the \[oq]z\[cq] toggle.

The Color Mapping screen can also be used to change the \*(CG in
either \*(FM or \*(AM.
Whatever was targeted when \[oq]q\[cq] or <Enter> was pressed will be
made current as you return to the \*(We display.

.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH 5. ALTERNATE\-DISPLAY Provisions
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" ......................................................................
.SS 5a. WINDOWS Overview
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.TP 3
.B Field Groups/Windows\fR:
In \*(FM there is a single window represented by the entire screen.
That single window can still be changed to display 1 of 4 different\fB field
groups\fR (\*(Xc \[oq]g\[cq] \*(CI, repeated below).
Each of the 4 \*(FGs has a unique separately configurable\fB \*(SA \fR
and its own configurable\fB \*(TA\fR.

In \*(AM, those 4 underlying \*(FGs can now be made visible
simultaneously, or can be turned \*F individually at your command.

The \*(SA will always exist, even if it's only the message line.
At any given time only\fI one\fR \*(SA can be displayed.
However, depending on your commands, there could be from\fI zero \fR
to\fI four\fR separate \*(TDs currently showing on the screen.

.TP 3
.B Current Window\fR:
The \*(CW is the window associated with the \*(SA and the window to which
task related commands are always directed.
Since in \*(AM you can toggle the \*(TD \*F, some commands might be
restricted for the \*(CW.

A further complication arises when you have toggled the first \*(SA
line \*F.
With the loss of the window name (the \[oq]l\[cq] toggled line),
you'll not easily know what window is the \*(CW.

.\" ......................................................................
.SS 5b. COMMANDS for Windows
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.TP 7
\ \ \ \fB-\fR | \fB_\fR\ \ :\fIShow/Hide-Window(s)\fR toggles \fR
The \[oq]\-\[cq] key turns the \*(CW's \*(TD \*O and \*F.
When \*O, that \*(TA will show a minimum of the columns header you've
established with the \[oq]f\[cq] \*(CI.
It will also reflect any other \*(TA options/toggles you've applied
yielding zero or more tasks.

The \[oq]_\[cq] key does the same for all \*(TDs.
In other words, it switches between the currently visible \*(TD(s) and any
\*(TD(s) you had toggled \*F.
If all 4 \*(TDs are currently visible, this \*(CI will leave the \*(SA
as the only display element.

.TP 7
*\ \ \fB=\fR | \fB+\fR\ \ :\fIEqualize/Reset-Window(s) \fR
The \[oq]=\[cq] key forces the \*(CW's \*(TD to be visible.
It also reverses any active \[oq]i\[cq] (idle tasks),
\[oq]n\[cq] (max tasks),
\[oq]u/U\[cq] (user filter),
\[oq]o/O\[cq] (other filter),
\[oq]v\[cq] (hide children),
\[oq]F\[cq] focused,
\[oq]L\[cq] (locate) and \[oq]!\[cq] (combine cpus) commands.
Also, if the window had been scrolled, it will be reset with this command.
\*(XT 5c. SCROLLING a Window for additional information regarding vertical
and horizontal scrolling.

The \[oq]+\[cq] key does the same for all windows.
The four \*(TDs will reappear, evenly balanced, while retaining
any customizations previously applied beyond those noted
for the \[oq]=\[cq] \*(CT.

.TP 7
*\ \ \fBA\fR\ \ :\fIAlternate-Display-Mode\fR toggle \fR
This command will switch between \*(FM and \*(AM.

The first time you issue this command, all four \*(TDs will be shown.
Thereafter when you switch modes, you will see only the \*(TD(s) you've
chosen to make visible.

.TP 7
*\ \ \fBa\fR | \fBw\fR\ \ :\fINext-Window-Forward/Backward \fR
This will change the \*(CW, which in turn changes the window to which
commands are directed.
These keys act in a circular fashion so you can reach any desired window
using either key.

Assuming the window name is visible
(you have not toggled \[oq]l\[cq] \*F),
whenever the \*(CW name loses its emphasis/color, that's a reminder
the \*(TD is \*F and many commands will be restricted.

.TP 7
\ \ \ \fBG\fR\ \ :\fIChange-Window/Field-Group-Name \fR
You will be prompted for a new name to be applied to the \*(CW.
It does not require that the window name be visible
(the \[oq]l\[cq] toggle to be \*O).

.IP "*" 3
The \*(CIs shown with an \*(AK have use beyond \*(AM.
.nf
    =, A, g    are always available
    a, w       act the same with color mapping
               and fields management
.fi

.TP 7
*\ \ \fBg\fR\ \ :\fIChoose-Another-Window/Field-Group \fR
You will be prompted to enter a number between 1 and 4 designating the
\*(FG which should be made the \*(CW.

In \*(FM, this command is necessary to alter the \*(CW.
In \*(AM,
it is simply a less convenient alternative to the \[oq]a\[cq] and
\[oq]w\[cq] commands.

.\" ......................................................................
.SS 5c. SCROLLING a Window
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Typically a \*(TW is a partial view into a system's total tasks/threads
which shows only some of the available fields/columns.
With these \*(KSs, you can move that view vertically or horizontally to
reveal any desired task or column.

.TP 4
\fBUp\fR,\fBPgUp\fR\ \ :\fIScroll-Tasks \fR
Move the view up toward the first task row, until the first task is
displayed at the top of the \*(CW.
The \fIUp\fR \*(KA moves a single line while \fIPgUp\fR scrolls the
entire window.

.TP 4
\fBDown\fR,\fBPgDn\fR\ \ :\fIScroll-Tasks \fR
Move the view down toward the last task row, until the last task is
the only task displayed at the top of the \*(CW.
The \fIDown\fR \*(KA moves a single line while \fIPgDn\fR scrolls the
entire window.

.TP 4
\fBLeft\fR,\fBRight\fR\ \ :\fIScroll-Columns \fR
Move the view of displayable fields horizontally one column at a time.

\*(NT As a reminder, some fields/columns are not fixed-width but
allocated all remaining screen width when visible.
When scrolling right or left, that feature may produce some
unexpected results initially.

Additionally, there are special provisions for any variable width field
when positioned as the last displayed field.
Once that field is reached via the right \*(KA, and is thus the only
column shown, you can continue scrolling horizontally within such a field.
\*(XC \[oq]C\[cq] \*(CI below for additional information.

.TP 4
\fBHome\fR\ \ :\fIJump-to-Home-Position \fR
Reposition the display to the un-scrolled coordinates.

.TP 4
\fBEnd\fR\ \ :\fIJump-to-End-Position \fR
Reposition the display so that the rightmost column reflects the last
displayable field and the bottom task row represents the last task.

\*(NT From this position it is still possible to scroll\fI down\fR
and\fI right\fR using the \*(KAs.
This is true until a single column and a single task is left as the only
display element.

.TP 4
\fBC\fR\ \ :\fIShow-scroll-coordinates\fR toggle \fR
Toggle an informational message which is displayed whenever the message
line is not otherwise being used.
That message will take one of two forms depending on whether or not a
variable width column has also been scrolled.

.nf
  \fBscroll coordinates: y = n/n (tasks), x = n/n (fields)\fR
  \fRscroll coordinates: y = n/n (tasks), x = n/n (fields)\fB + nn\fR
.fi

The coordinates shown as \fBn\fR/\fBn\fR are relative to the upper left
corner of the \*(CW.
The additional \[oq]\fB+\ nn\fR\[cq] represents the displacement into a
variable width column when it has been scrolled horizontally.
Such displacement occurs in normal 8 character tab stop amounts via
the right and left \*(KAs.

.RS +4
.TP 4
\fBy = n/n (tasks) \fR
The first \fBn\fR represents the topmost visible task and is controlled
by \*(KSs.
The second \fBn\fR is updated automatically to reflect total tasks.

.TP 4
\fBx = n/n (fields) \fR
The first \fBn\fR represents the leftmost displayed column and is
controlled by \*(KSs.
The second \fBn\fR is the total number of displayable fields and is
established with the \[oq]\fBf\fR\[cq] \*(CI.
.RS -4

.PP
The above \*(CIs are\fB always\fR available in \*(FM but\fB never\fR
available in \*(AM if the \*(CW's \*(TD has been toggled \*F.

\*(NT When any form of filtering is active, you can expect some slight
aberrations when scrolling since not all tasks will be visible.
This is particularly apparent when using the Up/Down \*(KAs.

.\" ......................................................................
.SS 5d. SEARCHING in a Window
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
You can use these \*(CIs to locate a task row containing a particular value.

.TP 4
\fBL\fR\ \ :\fILocate-a-string\fR
You will be prompted for the case-sensitive string to locate starting from
the current window coordinates.
There are no restrictions on search string content.

Searches are not limited to values from a single field or column.
All of the values displayed in a task row are allowed in a search string.
You may include spaces, numbers, symbols and even forest view artwork.

Keying <Enter> with no input will effectively disable the \[oq]&\[cq]
key until a new search string is entered.

.TP 4
\fB&\fR\ \ :\fILocate-next\fR
Assuming a search string has been established, \*(We will attempt to locate
the next occurrence.

.PP
When a match is found, the current window is repositioned vertically so the
task row containing that string is first.
The scroll coordinates message can provide confirmation of such vertical
repositioning (\*(Xc \[oq]C\[cq] \*(CI).
Horizontal scrolling, however, is never altered via searching.

The availability of a matching string will be influenced by the following
factors.
.RS +3
.TP 3
a. Which fields are displayable from the total available,
\*(Xt 3b. MANAGING Fields.
.TP 3
b. Scrolling a window vertically and/or horizontally,
\*(Xt 5c. SCROLLING a Window.
.TP 3
c. The state of the command/command-line toggle,
\*(Xc \[oq]c\[cq] \*(CI.
.TP 3
d. The stability of the chosen sort column,
for example PID is good but %CPU bad.
.RS -3

.PP
If a search fails, restoring the \*(CW home (unscrolled) position, scrolling
horizontally, displaying command-lines or choosing a more stable sort field
could yet produce a successful \[oq]&\[cq] search.

The above \*(CIs are\fB always\fR available in \*(FM but\fB never\fR
available in \*(AM if the \*(CW's \*(TD has been toggled \*F.

.\" ......................................................................
.SS 5e. FILTERING in a Window
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
You can use this \[oq]Other Filter\[cq] feature to establish selection
criteria which will then determine which tasks are shown in the \*(CW.
Such filters can be made persistent if preserved in the rcfile via
the \[oq]W\[cq] \*(CI.

Establishing a filter requires: 1) a field name; 2) an operator; and
3) a selection value, as a minimum.
This is the most complex of \*(We's user input requirements so, when you make
a mistake, command recall will be your friend.
Remember the Up/Down \*(KAs or their aliases when prompted for input.

.B Filter Basics
.RS +3
.TP 3
1. field names are case sensitive and spelled as in the header
.TP 3
2. selection values need not comprise the full displayed field
.TP 3
3. a selection is either case insensitive or sensitive to case
.TP 3
4. the default is inclusion, prepending \[oq]!\[cq] denotes exclusions
.TP 3
5. multiple selection criteria can be applied to a \*(TW
.TP 3
6. inclusion and exclusion criteria can be used simultaneously
.TP 3
7. the 1 equality and 2 relational filters can be freely mixed
.TP 3
8. separate unique filters are maintained for each \*(TW

.PP
If a field is not turned on or is not currently in view, then your selection
criteria will not affect the display.
Later, should a filtered field become visible, the selection criteria will
then be applied.
.RE

.B Keyboard Summary
.TP 6
\ \ \fBO\fR\ \ :\fIOther-Filter\fR (upper case)
You will be prompted to establish a \fBcase sensitive\fR filter.

.TP 6
\ \ \fBo\fR\ \ :\fIOther-Filter\fR (lower case)
You will be prompted to establish a filter that \fBignores case\fR when
matching.

.TP 6
\ \fB^O\fR\ \ :\fIShow-Active-Filters\fR (Ctrl key + \[oq]o\[cq])
This can serve as a reminder of which filters are active in the \*(CW.
A summary will be shown on the message line until you press the <Enter> key.

.TP 6
\ \ \fB=\fR\ \ :\fIReset-Filtering\fR in current window
This clears all of your selection criteria in the \*(CW.
It also has additional impact so please \*(Xt 4a. GLOBAL Commands.

.TP 6
\ \ \fB+\fR\ \ :\fIReset-Filtering\fR in all windows
This clears the selection criteria in all windows, assuming you are in \*(AM.
As with the \[oq]=\[cq] \*(CI,
it too has additional consequences so you might wish to \*(Xt 5b.
COMMANDS for Windows.

.PP
.B Input Requirements
.RS +3
.P
When prompted for selection criteria, the data you provide must take one
of two forms.
There are 3 required pieces of information, with a 4th as optional.
These examples use spaces for clarity but your input generally would not.
.nf
        #1           \fB#2\fR  #3              ( required )
        Field\-Name   ?   include\-if\-value
     \fB!\fR  Field\-Name   ?   \fBexclude\fR\-if\-value
     #4                                  ( optional )
.fi

Items #1, #3 and #4 should be self\-explanatory.
Item \fB#2\fR represents both a required \fIdelimiter\fR and the \fIoperator\fR
which must be one of either equality
(\[oq]=\[cq])
or relation
(\[oq]<\[cq] or \[oq]>\[cq]).

The \[oq]=\[cq] equality operator requires only a partial match and that
can reduce your \[oq]if\-value\[cq] input requirements.
The \[oq]>\[cq] or \[oq]<\[cq] relational operators always employ string
comparisons,
even with numeric fields.
They are designed to work with a field's default \fIjustification\fR and
with homogeneous data.
When some field's numeric amounts have been subjected to \fIscaling\fR
while others have not, that data is no longer homogeneous.

If you establish a relational filter and you \fBhave\fR changed the
default Numeric or Character \fIjustification\fR, that filter is likely to fail.
When a relational filter is applied to a memory field and you \fBhave not\fR
changed the \fIscaling\fR, it may produce misleading results.
This happens,
for example,
because \[oq]100.0m\[cq] (MiB) would appear greater
than \[oq]1.000g\[cq] (GiB) when compared as strings.

If your filtered results appear suspect, simply altering justification or
scaling may yet achieve the desired objective.
See the \[oq]j\[cq],
\[oq]J\[cq] and \[oq]e\[cq] \*(CIs for additional information.
.RE

.B Potential Problems
.RS +3
.P
These \fBGROUP\fR filters could produce the exact same results or the
second one might not display anything at all, just a blank \*(TW.
.nf
     GROUP=root        ( only the same results when )
     GROUP=ROOT        ( invoked via lower case \[oq]o\[cq] )
.fi

Either of these \fBRES\fR filters might yield inconsistent and/or
misleading results, depending on the current memory scaling factor.
Or both filters could produce the exact same results.
.nf
     RES>9999          ( only the same results when )
     !RES<10000        ( memory scaling is at \[oq]KiB\[cq] )
.fi

This \fBnMin\fR filter illustrates a problem unique to scalable fields.
This particular field can display a maximum of 4 digits, beyond which values
are automatically scaled to KiB or above.
So while amounts greater than 9999 exist, they will appear as 2.6m, 197k, etc.
.nf
     nMin>9999         ( always a blank \*(TW )
.fi
.RE

.B Potential Solutions
.RS +3
.P
These examples illustrate how Other Filtering can be creatively
applied to achieve almost any desired result.
Single quotes are sometimes shown to delimit the spaces which are part of
a filter or to represent a request for status (^O) accurately.
But if you used them with if-values in real life, no matches would be found.

Assuming field \fBnTH\fR is displayed, the first filter will result in
only multi-threaded processes being shown.
It also reminds us that a trailing space is part of every displayed field.
The second filter achieves the exact same results with less typing.
.nf
     !nTH=\[oq] 1 \[cq]                ( \[oq]\[cq] for clarity only )
     nTH>1                     ( same with less i/p )
.fi

With Forest View mode active and the \fBCOMMAND\fR column in view, this
filter effectively collapses child processes so that just 3 levels are shown.
.nf
     !COMMAND=\[oq]       \[oq]- \[cq]   ( \[oq]\[cq] for clarity only )
.fi

The final two filters appear as in response to the status request key (^O).
In reality, each filter would have required separate input.
The \fBPR\fR example shows the two concurrent filters necessary to display
tasks with priorities of 20 or more, since some might be negative.
Then by exploiting trailing spaces, the \fBnMin\fR series of filters could
achieve the failed \[oq]9999\[cq] objective discussed above.
.nf
     \[oq]PR>20\[cq] + \[oq]!PR=-\[cq]         ( 2 for right result )
     \[oq]!nMin=0 \[cq] + \[oq]!nMin=1 \[cq] + \[oq]!nMin=2 \[cq] + \[oq]!nMin=3 \[cq] ...
.fi
.RS -3

.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH 6. FILES
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS 6a. PERSONAL Configuration File
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
This file is created or updated via the \[oq]W\[cq] \*(CI.

The legacy version is written as
\[oq]$HOME/.your\-name\-4\-\*(We\[cq] + \[oq]rc\[cq]
with a leading period.

A newly created \*(CF is written as
\[oq]procps/your\-name\-4\-\*(We\[cq] + \[oq]rc\[cq]
without a leading period.
The procps directory will be subordinate to either $XDG_CONFIG_HOME when
set as an absolute path or the $HOME/.config directory.

While not intended to be edited manually, here is the general layout:
.nf
    global   # line  1: the program name/alias notation
      "      # line  2: id,altscr,irixps,delay,curwin
    per ea   # line  a: winname,fieldscur
    window   # line  b: winflags,sortindx,maxtasks,etc
      "      # line  c: summclr,msgsclr,headclr,taskclr
    global   # line 15: additional miscellaneous settings
      "      # any remaining lines are devoted to optional
      "      # active \[oq]other filters\[cq] discussed in section 5e above
      "      # plus \[oq]inspect\[cq] entries discussed in section 6b below
.fi

If a valid absolute path to the rcfile cannot be established, customizations
made to a running \*(We will be impossible to preserve.

.\" ......................................................................
.SS 6b. ADDING INSPECT Entries
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
To exploit the \[oq]Y\[cq] \*(CI, you must add entries at the\fB end\fR
of the \*(We personal \*(CF.
Such entries simply reflect a file to be read or command/pipeline to be
executed whose results will then be displayed in a separate scrollable,
searchable window.

If you don't know the location or name of your \*(We rcfile, use the
\[oq]W\[cq] \*(CI to rewrite it and note those details.

Inspect entries can be added with a redirected echo or by editing the \*(CF.
Redirecting an echo risks overwriting the rcfile should it replace (>)
rather than append (>>) to that file.
Conversely, when using an editor care must be taken not to corrupt existing
lines, some of which could contain unprintable data or unusual characters
depending on the \*(We version under which that \*(CF was saved.

Those Inspect entries beginning with a \[oq]#\[cq] character are
ignored,
regardless of content.
Otherwise they consist of the following 3 elements, each of which\fI must\fR
be separated by a tab character (thus 2 \[oq]\\t\[cq] total):

.nf
  .type:  literal \[oq]file\[cq] or \[oq]pipe\[cq]
  .name:  selection shown on the Inspect screen
  .fmts:  string representing a path or command
.fi

The two types of Inspect entries are\fI not\fR interchangeable.
Those designated \[oq]\fBfile\fR\[cq] will be accessed using fopen and
must reference a single file in the \[oq].fmts\[cq] element.
Entries specifying \[oq]\fBpipe\fR\[cq] will employ popen,
their \[oq].fmts\[cq] element could contain many pipelined commands and,
none can be interactive.

If the file or pipeline represented in your \[oq].fmts\[cq] deals with
the specific PID input or accepted when prompted,
then the format string must also contain the \[oq]\fB%d\fR\[cq]
specifier,
as these examples illustrate.

.nf
  .fmts=  /proc/\fI%d\fR/numa_maps
  .fmts=  lsof -P -p\fI %d\fR
.fi

For \[oq]\fBpipe\fR\[cq] type entries only,
you may also wish to redirect stderr to stdout for a more comprehensive
result.
Thus the format string becomes:

.nf
  .fmts=  pmap -x %d\fI 2>&1\fR
.fi

Here are examples of both types of Inspect entries as they might appear
in the rcfile.
The first entry will be ignored due to the initial \[oq]#\[cq]
character.
For clarity, the pseudo tab depictions (^I) are surrounded by an
extra space but the actual tabs would not be.
.nf

  # pipe ^I Sockets ^I lsof -n -P -i 2>&1
  pipe ^I Open Files ^I lsof -P -p %d 2>&1
  file ^I NUMA Info ^I /proc/%d/numa_maps
  pipe ^I Log ^I tail -n100 /var/log/syslog | sort -Mr
.fi

Except for the commented entry above, these next examples show what could
be echoed to achieve similar results,
assuming the rcfile name was \[oq].toprc\[cq].
However,
due to the embedded tab characters,
each of these lines should be preceded by \[oq]\fB/bin/echo \-e\fR\[cq],
not just a simple an \[oq]echo\[cq],
to enable backslash interpretation regardless of which shell you use.

.nf
  "pipe\\tOpen Files\\tlsof -P -p %d 2>&1" >> ~/.toprc
  "file\\tNUMA Info\\t/proc/%d/numa_maps" >> ~/.toprc
  "pipe\\tLog\\ttail -n200 /var/log/syslog | sort -Mr" >> ~/.toprc
.fi

If any inspect entry you create produces output with unprintable characters
they will be displayed in either the ^C notation or hexadecimal <FF> form,
depending on their value.
This applies to tab characters as well, which will show as \[oq]^I\[cq].
If you want a truer representation, any embedded tabs should be expanded.
The following example takes what could have been a \[oq]file\[cq] entry
but employs a \[oq]pipe\[cq] instead so as to expand the embedded tabs.

.nf
  # next would have contained \[oq]\\t\[cq] ...
  # file ^I <your_name> ^I /proc/%d/status
  # but this will eliminate embedded \[oq]\\t\[cq] ...
  pipe ^I <your_name> ^I cat /proc/%d/status | expand \-
.fi

\*(NT Some programs might rely on \fISIGINT\fR to end.
Therefore,
if a \[oq]\fBpipe\fR\[cq] such as the following is established,
one must use Ctrl-C to terminate it in order to review the results.
This is the single occasion where a \[oq]^C\[cq] will not also terminate
\*(We.

.nf
  pipe ^I Trace ^I /usr/bin/strace -p %d 2>&1
.fi

Lastly,
while \[oq]\fBpipe\fR\[cq] type entries have been discussed in terms of
pipelines and commands,
there is nothing to prevent you from including \fI shell scripts\fR as
well.
Perhaps even newly created scripts designed specifically for the
\[oq]Y\[cq] \*(CI.

For example, as the number of your Inspect entries grows over time,
the \[oq]Options:\[cq] row will be truncated when screen width is
exceeded.
That does not affect operation other than to make some selections invisible.
However, if some choices are lost to truncation but you want to see more options,
there is an easy solution hinted at below.

.nf
  Inspection Pause at pid ...
  Use:  left/right then <Enter> ...
  Options:  help  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11 ...
.fi

The entries in the \*(We rcfile would have a number for the
\[oq].name\[cq] element and the \[oq]help\[cq] entry would identify a
shell script you've written explaining what those numbered selections
actually mean.
In that way, many more choices can be made visible.

.\" ......................................................................
.SS 6c. SYSTEM Configuration File
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
This \*(CF represents defaults for users who have not saved their own \*(CF.
The format mirrors exactly the personal \*(CF and can also include
\[oq]inspect\[cq] entries as explained above.

Creating it is a simple process.

1. Configure \*(We appropriately for your installation and preserve that
configuration with the \[oq]W\[cq] \*(CI.

2. Add and test any desired \[oq]inspect\[cq] entries.

3. Copy that \*(CF to the \fI/etc/\fR directory as
\[oq]\fBtopdefaultrc\fR\[cq].

.\" ......................................................................
.SS 6d. SYSTEM Restrictions File
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
The presence of this file will influence which version of the help screen
is shown to an ordinary user.

More importantly, it will limit what ordinary users are allowed
to do when \*(We is running.
They will not be able to issue the following commands.
.nf
    k        Kill a task
    r        Renice a task
    d or s   Change delay/sleep interval
.fi

This \*(CF is not created by \*(We.
Rather, it is created manually and placed it in the \fI/etc/\fR
directory as \[oq]\fBtoprc\fR\[cq].

It should have exactly two lines, as shown in this example:
.nf
    s        # line 1: secure mode switch
    5.0      # line 2: delay interval in seconds
.fi

.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH 7. ENVIRONMENT VARIABLE(S)
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
The value set for the following is unimportant, just its presence.

.IP LIBPROC_HIDE_KERNEL
This will prevent display of any kernel threads and exclude such processes
from the \*(SA Tasks/Threads counts.

.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH 8. STUPID TRICKS Sampler
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Many of these tricks work best when you give \*(We a scheduling boost.
So plan on starting him with a nice value of \-10, assuming you've got
the authority.

.\" ......................................................................
.SS 8a. Kernel Magic
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" sorry, just can't help it -- don't ya love the sound of this?
For these stupid tricks, \*(We needs \*(FM.
.\" ( apparently AM static was a potential concern )

.IP \(bu 3
The user interface, through prompts and help, intentionally implies
that the delay interval is limited to tenths of a second.
However, you're free to set any desired delay.
If you want to see Linux at his scheduling best, try a delay of .09
seconds or less.

For this experiment, under x-windows open an xterm and maximize it.
Then do the following:
.nf
  . provide a scheduling boost and tiny delay via:
      nice -n -10 \*(We -d.09
  . keep sorted column highlighting \*F so as to
    minimize path length
  . turn \*O reverse row highlighting for emphasis
  . try various sort columns (TIME/MEM work well),
    and normal or reverse sorts to bring the most
    active processes into view
.fi

What you'll see is a very busy Linux doing what he's always done for you,
but there was no program available to illustrate this.

.IP \(bu 3
Under an xterm using \[oq]white-on-black\[cq] colors,
on \*(We's Color Mapping screen set the task color to black and be sure
that task highlighting is set to bold,
not reverse.
Then set the delay interval to around .3 seconds.

After bringing the most active processes into view, what you'll see are
the ghostly images of just the currently running tasks.

.IP \(bu 3
Delete the existing rcfile, or create a new symlink.
Start this new version then type \[oq]T\[cq]
(a secret key,
\*(Xt 4c. Task Area Commands,
SORTING) followed by \[oq]W\[cq] and \[oq]q\[cq].
Finally, restart the program with \-d0 (zero delay).

Your display will be refreshed at three times the rate of the former \*(We,
a 300% speed advantage.
As \*(We climbs the TIME ladder, be as patient as you can while speculating
on whether or not \*(We will ever reach the \*(We.

.\" ......................................................................
.SS 8b. Bouncing Windows
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
For these stupid tricks, \*(We needs \*(AM.

.IP \(bu 3
With 3 or 4 \*(TDs visible, pick any window other than the last
and turn idle processes \*F using the \[oq]i\[cq] \*(CT.
Depending on where you applied \[oq]i\[cq],
sometimes several \*(TDs are bouncing and
sometimes it's like an accordion, as \*(We tries his best to allocate space.

.IP \(bu 3
Set each window's summary lines differently:
one with no memory (\[oq]m\[cq]);
another with no states (\[oq]t\[cq]);
maybe one with nothing at all,
just the message line.
Then hold down \[oq]a\[cq] or \[oq]w\[cq] and watch a variation on
bouncing windows \*(Em hopping windows.

.IP \(bu 3
Display all 4 windows and for each, in turn, set idle processes to \*F using
the \[oq]i\[cq] \*(CT.
You've just entered the "extreme bounce" zone.

.\" ......................................................................
.SS 8c. The Big Bird Window
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
This stupid trick also requires \*(AM.

.IP \(bu 3
Display all 4 windows and make sure that 1:Def is the \*(CW.
Then, keep increasing window size with the \[oq]n\[cq] \*(CI until all
the other \*(TDs are "pushed out of the nest".

When they've all been displaced, toggle between all visible/invisible windows
using the \[oq]_\[cq] \*(CT.
Then ponder this:
.br
   is \*(We fibbing or telling honestly your imposed truth?

.\" ......................................................................
.SS 8d. The Ol' Switcheroo
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
This stupid trick works best without \*(AM, since justification is active
on a per window basis.

.IP \(bu 3
Start \*(We and make COMMAND the last (rightmost) column displayed.
If necessary,
use the \[oq]c\[cq] \*(CT to display command lines and ensure that
forest view mode is active with the \[oq]V\[cq] \*(CT.

Then use the up/down \*(KAs to position the display so that some
truncated command lines are shown (\[oq]+\[cq] in last position).
You may have to resize your xterm to produce truncation.

Lastly, use the \[oq]j\[cq] \*(CT to make the COMMAND column right
justified.

Now use the right \*(KA to reach the COMMAND column.
Continuing with the right \*(KA, watch closely the direction
of travel for the command lines being shown.

.br
   some lines travel left, while others travel right

   eventually all lines will Switcheroo, and move right

.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH 9. BUGS
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Please send bug reports to
.MT procps@freelists.org
.ME .

 \" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH 10. SEE Also
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.BR free (1),
.BR ps (1),
.BR uptime (1),
.BR atop (1),
.BR slabtop (1),
.BR vmstat (8),
.BR w (1)
