.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2011-2024 Craig Small <csmall@dropbear.xyz>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011-2024 Jim Warner <james.warner@comcast.net>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011-2012 Sami Kerola <kerolasa@iki.fi>
.\" Copyright (c) 2002      Albert Cahalan
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"
.TH UPTIME 1 2024-02-08 procps-ng
.SH NAME
uptime \- Tell how long the system has been running.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uptime
.RI [ option " .\|.\|.]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B uptime
gives a one line display of the following information.  The current time, how
long the system has been running, how many users are currently logged on, and
the system load averages for the past 1, 5, and 15 minutes.
.PP
This is the same information contained in the header line displayed by
.BR w (1).
.PP
System load averages is the average number of processes that are either in a
runnable or uninterruptable state.  A process in a runnable state is either
using the CPU or waiting to use the CPU.  A process in uninterruptable state
is waiting for some I/O access, eg waiting for disk.  The averages are taken
over the three time intervals.  Load averages are not normalized for the
number of CPUs in a system, so a load average of 1 means a single CPU system
is loaded all the time while on a 4 CPU system it means it was idle 75% of
the time.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-container\fR
show the container uptime instead of system uptime.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pretty\fR
show uptime in pretty format
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
display this help text
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
Display values in a raw format. Current time and uptime are displayed in seconds.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-since\fR
system up since, in yyyy-mm-dd HH:MM:SS format
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
display version information and exit
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B PROCPS_CONTAINER
If $\fBPROCPS_CONTAINER\fR is set, then \fBuptime\fR behaves as if the \fB\-\-container\fR option has been given.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/run/utmp
information about who is currently logged on
.TP
.I /proc
process information
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ps (1),
.BR top (1),
.BR utmp (5),
.BR w (1)
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please send bug reports to
.MT procps@freelists.org
.ME .
