.TH "80211DEBUG" "8" "February 2006" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
\fB80211debug\fP \- control the debug output from the madwifi 802.11 stack
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B 80211debug
[-i interface] +/\- bitmap
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Set and clear debug bitmaps for the madwifi 802.11 stack. Each argument is a 
bitmap or its alias. If a bitmap alias is used then it must be prefixed by 
either "-" to clear or "+" to set the corresponding bitmap.
.PP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-?
Display usage and list all debug bitmaps.
.TP
.B \-i interface
The madwifi interface to debug. If no interface is specified, \fB80211debug\fP
defaults to ath0.
.TP
.B +/\- bitmap
Set (+) or clear (-) a bitmap. It's quite tedious to remember the bitmaps,
fortunately there is a user friendly interface which can be used to enable or
disable debugging output by giving the name of the component or subsystem.
.PP
All debugging output can be enabled with 0xffffffff bitmap, while 0x0
disables all debug output.
.PP
.SH "BITMAP ALIASES"
.BI debug
\- IFF_DEBUG equivalent
.br
.BI dumppkts
\- IFF_LINK2 equivalent, dump packets
.br
.BI crypto
\- crypto modules
.br
.BI input
\- packet input handling
.br
.BI xrate
\- rate set handling
.br
.BI elemid
\- element id parsing
.br
.BI node
\- node management
.br
.BI assoc
\- association handling
.br
.BI auth
\- authentication handling
.br
.BI scan
\- scanning
.br
.BI output
\- packet output handling
.br
.BI state
\- 802.11 state machine
.br
.BI power
\- power save functions
.br
.BI dot1x
\- 802.1x authenticator
.br
.BI dot1xsm
\- 802.1x state machine
.br
.BI radius
\- 802.1x radius client
.br
.BI raddump
\- 802.1x radius packet dump
.br
.BI radkeys
\- 802.1x key dump
.br
.BI wpa
\- WPA/RSN protocol
.br
.BI ac1
\- ACL handling
.br
.BI wme
\- WME protocol
.br
.BI superg
\- super G turbo mode
.br
.BI doth
\- 802.11h (DFS/TPC) handling
.br
.BI inact
\- timeout of inactive nodes
.br
.BI roam
\- station mode roaming
.br
.PP
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
.B 80211debug \-i ath1 0xffffffff
Enable all debug bitmaps on ath1.
.TP
.B 80211debug +state +assoc
Set state and assoc bitmaps to  on for ath0.
.TP
.B 80211debug \-state
Disable state bitmap for ath0.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBathdebug\fP(8), \fBhttp://madwifi.org/wiki/DevDocs/AthDebug\fP
.SH "AUTHOR"
This manual page was written by Kel Modderman <kelrin@tpg.com.au> and was based
upon previous text written by Eric S. Raymond.
