.TH "ATHDEBUG" "8" "February 2006" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
\fBathdebug\fP \- control the debug output from the madwifi device subsystem
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B athdebug
[-i device] +/\- bitmap
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Set and clear debug bitmaps for the madwifi ath device subsystem. Each argument
is a bitmap or its alias. If a bitmap alias is used then it must be prefixed by 
either "-" to clear or "+" to set the corresponding bitmap.
.PP
All debugging output can be enabled with the 0xffffffff bitmap, while 0x0
disables all debug output.
.PP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-?
Display usage and list all debug flags.
.TP
.B \-i device
The madwifi device to apply the settings to. If no interface is specified, 
\fBathdebug\fP defaults to wifi0.
.TP
.B +/\- bitmap
Set (+) or clear (-) a debug flag.
.PP
.SH "BITMAP ALIASES"
.BI xmit
\- transmit of packets, just before they go out to the HW
.br
.BI xmit_desc
\- transmit descriptors
.br
.BI recv
\- received packets, directly from the HW
.br
.BI recv_desc
\- recv descriptors
.br
.BI rate
\- rate control modules
.br
.BI reset
\- reset processing and inititalization
.br
.BI mode
\- mode initialization and changes
.br
.BI beacon
\- beacon handling
.br
.BI watchdog
\- watchdog timeout
.br
.BI intr
\- interrupt processing
.br
.BI xmit_proc
\- processing of transmit descriptors
.br
.BI recv_proc
\- processing of receive descriptors
.br
.BI beacon_proc
\- beacon processing
.br
.BI calibrate
\- periodic re-calibration
.br
.BI keycache
\- key cache management
.br
.BI state
\- 802.11 state transitions
.br
.BI node
\- node management
.BI ff
\- fast frame handling
.br
.BI fatal
fatal errors
.br
.PP
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
.B athdebug \-i wifi1 0xffffffff
Enable all debug bitmaps on wifi1.
.TP
.B athdebug +rate
Enable rate debug bitmap on wifi0.
.TP
.B athdebug \-rate
Clear rate bitmap on wifi0.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fB80211debug\fP(8), \fBhttp://madwifi.org/wiki/DevDocs/AthDebug\fP
.SH "AUTHOR"
This manual page was written by Kel Modderman <kelrin@tpg.com.au> and was based
upon previous text written by Eric S. Raymond.
