.\" .nh
.\" .ad l
.TH "hotplug2" "8" "November 2008" "hotplug2" "hotplug2"
.SH "NAME"
hotplug2 \- embeddable hotplug support binary
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBhotplug2\fR
[options]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
The hotplug2 application allows automatical loading of modules, based on the events sent by kernel, which can be invoked artifically (eg. using udevtrigger).
.PP 
The purpose of hotplug2 is not to be a replacement of udev, instead it should be helpful during hardware autodetection in initrd / initramfs.
.PP 
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.TP 
\fB\-\-persistent\fR, \fB\-\-no\-persistent\fR
Keep hotplug2 running even after all events have been processed, waiting for more. The default behavior is not to be persistent: note that it will still block until at least one event has been processed. 
.TP 
\fB\-\-dumb\fR, \fB\-\-no\-dumb\fR
Forcibly prevent using rules and only modprobe. Default is \-\-no\-dumb, therefore rules are used.
.TP 
\fB\-\-max\-children <value>\fR
Set the value of maximum children hotplug2 may have running simultaneously. Default is 20.
.TP 
\fB\-\-set\-coldplug\-cmd <cmd>\fR
Sets the application used to perform coldplug. If not set, no coldplugging is preformed.
.TP 
\fB\-\-set\-modprobe\-cmd <cmd>\fR
Sets the application used to perform modprobe. It only gets used in dumb mode. Default is to autodetect: if '/sbin/modprobe' is from module\-init\-tools, use '/sbin/modprobe', otherwise use '/sbin/hotplug2\-modwrap'.
.TP
\fB\-\-set\-rules\-file <file>\fR
Sets the path to the file containing hotplug2 rules. If not set, hotplug2 runs in dumb mode (despite default of \-\-no\-dumb).
.TP
\fB\-\-set\-worker <path>\fR
Sets the worker to be used with hotplug2.
.TP
Other flags may or may not be accepted according to the chosen worker.
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Written by iSteve
<isteve@bofh.cz>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP 
\fBudev\fR(7),
\fBudevd\fR(8),
\fBudevinfo\fR(8),
\fBudevmonitor\fR(8)
\fBudevtrigger\fR(8)
