.TH "ATHSTATS" "8" "February 2006" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
\fBathstats\fP \- simple tool to inspect and monitor network traffic statistics
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B athstats
.I "[\-i device] [interval]"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Provide statistics about a madwifi device. Without any arguments,
\fBathstats\fP will print a summary of statistical elements for the specified
device (defaults to wifi0 when no device is given). If an additional argument
is given as an integer, athstats will print progressive statistical data at an
interval equal to the integer in seconds.
.PP
Statistical elements of the summary report include packets sent/received, tx/rx
errors, calibration information and antenna profile data.
.PP
The progressive report elements include packet input/output as well as altrate,
short, long, xretry, crcerr, crypt, phyerror packet count, rssi and rate data.
.PP
The statistical data is derived from device ioctls and /proc/net/dev. For
further understanding of how the statistical information is collected and what
it represents, please refer to the \fBathstats\fP source code
(tools/athstats.c).
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-i device
The madwifi device to apply the settings to. If no device is specified, 
\fBathstats\fP defaults to wifi0.
.TP
.B interval
Define the interval between realtime statistical feedback in seconds.
.PP
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
.B athstats
Print summary of statistics for wifi0.
.TP
.B athstats 1
Update a progressive statistical report every 1 second for wifi0.
.TP
.B athstats \-i wifi1 5
Update a progressive statistical report every 5 seconds for wifi1.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fB80211stats\fP(8)
.SH "AUTHOR"
This manual page was written by Kel Modderman <kelrin@tpg.com.au>.
