.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.Dd November 28, 2021
.Dt SMCROUTECTL 8 SMM
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm smcroutectl
.Nd Control and status tool for
.Xr smcrouted 8
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm smcroutectl
.Op Fl bdptv
.Op Fl i Ar NAME
.Op Fl u Ar FILE
.Op Ar COMMAND
.Pp
.Nm smcroutectl
.Ao help | flush | kill | reload | version Ac
.Nm smcroutectl
.Ao show Ac
.Op groups | routes
.Nm smcroutectl
.Ao add \ | \ \ rem Ac IIF Oo SOURCE Oc Ar GROUP[/LEN] OIF Op OIF ...
.Nm smcroutectl
.Ao join | leave Ac IIF Oo SOURCE Oc Ar GROUP[/LEN]
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is the control tool for
.Xr smcrouted 8 .
It can be used to query status, debug, modify the kernel multicast
forwarding cache (MFC), manage group interface memberships, reload
.Nm smcroute.conf ,
and kill a running
.Nm smcrouted .
.Sh OPTIONS
The following
.Nm
options are available:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl b
Batch mode, read commands from stdin.
.Bd -unfilled -offset indent
$ sudo smcroutectl -b <<-EOF
	join eth0 225.1.2.3
	add eth0 192.168.1.42 225.1.2.3 eth1 eth2
	rem eth1 225.3.4.5 eth3
	leave eth1 225.3.4.5
	EOF
.Ed
.It Fl d
Enable detailed output in show commands.
.It Fl i Ar NAME
Connect to an
.Nm smcrouted
instance that runs with another identity,
.Ar NAME .
.Pp
This option is required for both
.Nm smcrouted
and
.Nm smcroutectl
when running multiple
.Nm smcrouted
instances, e.g., when using multiple routing tables, on Linux.
.It Fl p
Use plain table headings in
.Cm show
command output.  No ANSI control characters are used, not even for
probing screen width.
.It Fl t
Skip table headings entirely in
.Cm show
command output.
.It Fl u Ar FILE
UNIX domain socket path, used for the IPC between
.Nm smcrouted
and
.Nm .
Use this to override the default socket path, otherwise derived from the
identity,
.Fl i Ar NAME .
This option can be useful when overriding the identity is not
sufficient, e.g. for testing.  The default depends on how
.Nm
is configured at build time, see
.Sx FILES .
.El
.Sh OPERATION
The
.Ar IIF
and
.Ar OIF
arguments in the below
.Nm smcroutectl
commands are the interface names, or interface wildcards of the form
.Ar eth+ ,
which matches
.Ar eth0 , eth10 ,
etc.  Wildcards are available for both inbound and outbound interfaces.
.Pp
A multicast route is defined by an input interface
.Ar IIF ,
the sender's unicast IP address
.Ar SOURCE ,
which is optional, the multicast group
.Ar GROUP
and a list of, at least one, output interface
.Ar OIF [OIF ...] .
.Pp
Please refer to
.Xr smcrouted 8 
for more details on the operation and how ASM/SSM multicast works.
.Sh COMMANDS
Commands can be abbreviated to the minimum unambiguous prefix; for
example,
.Cm s g
for
.Cm show groups .
The following commands are available:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Nm add Ar IIF [SOURCE[/LEN]] GROUP[/LEN] OIF [OIF ...]
Add a new multicast route the the kernel MFC, or modify the outbound
interfaces (OIF) an existing route.
.Pp
The arguments are, in order:
.Ar IIF
the inbound interface,
.Ar SOURCE
originating IP address (may need to be reachable in the unicast routing
table to be allowed by the kernel reverse-path check),
.Ar GROUP
the multicast group address, and
.Ar OIF Oo Ar OIF ... Oc
the outbound network interface(s).
.Pp
The interfaces provided as
.Ar IIF
and
.Ar OIF
can be any multicast capable network interface as listed by
.Ql Cm ifconfig
or
.Ql Cm ip link list ,
including tunnel interfaces and loopback.  Provided
.Nm smcrouted
has "enumerated" them.  See
.Xr smcrouted 8 ,
in particular the command line option
.Fl N ,
and the
.Xr smcroute.conf 5
.Ql Cm phyint
directive.
.Pp
To add a (*,G) route, either omit the
.Ar SOURCE
argument completely, or set it to
.Ar 0.0.0.0
for IPv4, and if you want to specify a range of groups, use
the
.Ql GROUP/LEN
modifier, e.g.
.Ql 225.0.0.0/24 .
.It Nm remove Ar IIF [SOURCE[/LEN]] GROUP[/LEN] [OIF [OIF ...]]
Remove or modify the outbound interfaces of a multicast route in the
kernel MFC.
.Pp
When no
.Ar OIF
argument is given, this command removes the entire route.  With
one or more
.Ar OIF
arguments, each outbound interface listed is removed.  Skipping
any unmatched or invalid interface names.  When no more outbound
interfaces exist, the route will have been transformed into a
"stop filter".  To remove the route entirely, the command must
be given with no
.Ar OIF
arguments.
.It Nm flush
Flush dynamic (*,G) multicast routes now.  Similar to how
.Fl c Ar SEC
works in
.Nm smcrouted ,
this command initiates an immediate flush of all dynamically installed
(*,G) multicast routes.  Useful when a topology change has been detected
and need to be propagated to
.Nm smcrouted.
.It Nm join Ar IIF [SOURCE[/LEN]] GROUP[/LEN]
Join a multicast group, with an optional prefix length, on the given
(inbound) interface.  The source address is optional, but if given a
source specific (SSM) join is performed.  Note, joining groups is only
ever necessary on the inbound interface, never on the outbound.  Unless,
two-way routing the same group.
.Pp
Note, as mentioned in
.Xr smcrouted 8 ,
joining a group to open up traffic in layer-2 network switches is only a
workaround to direct multicast towards SMCRoute.  When routing lots of
traffic it is advised to avoid this mechanism.  Instead, use multicast
router ports, or similar settings on the switches, or if they support
multicast router discovery (MRDISC), see RFC4286.
.It Nm leave Ar IIF [SOURCE[/LEN]] GROUP[/LEN]
Leave a multicast group, with optional prefix length, on a given
(inbound) interface.  As with the join command, above, the source
address is optional, but if the group was subscribed to with source it
must be unsubscribed with source as well.
.It Nm help [cmd]
Print a usage information message.
.It Nm kill
Tell a running
.Nm smcrouted
to exit gracefully, same as
.Ar SIGTERM .
.It Nm reload
Tell
.Nm smcrouted
to reload its configuration and activate the changes.  Same as
.Ar SIGHUP .
Note, any routes or groups added or removed with
.Nm smcroutectl
will be lost.  Only the configuration set in the file
.Pa smcroute.conf
is activated.
.It Nm show [groups|routes]
Show joined multicast groups or multicast routes, defaults to show
routes.  Can be combined with the
.Fl d
option to get details for each multicast route.
.It Nm version
Show program version and support information.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr smcrouted 8 ,
.Xr smcroute.conf 5
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
SMCRoute was originally created by
.An Carsten Schill Aq Mt carsten@cschill.de .
Initial IPv6 support by
.An Todd Hayton Aq Mt todd.hayton@gmail.com .
Initial FreeBSD support by
.An Micha Lenk Aq Mt micha@debian.org .
.Pp
SMCRoute is currently maintained by
.An Joachim Wiberg Aq Mt troglobit@gmail.com ,
and
.An Micha Lenk Aq Mt micha@debian.org
at
.Lk https://github.com/troglobit/smcroute "GitHub" .
