.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.Dd August 15, 2021
.Dt SMCROUTE.CONF 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm smcroute.conf
.Nd smcrouted configuration file format
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The file
.Nm
is, strictly speaking, not critical to the operation of
.Nm smcrouted .
Some warnings may be logged, and provided the daemon is
.Sy not
started with
.Fl N ,
it enables VIFs for all interfaces it can find and then waits for
commands from
.Xr smcroutectl 8 .
As you can tell from that caveat, any non-trivial setup requires an
.Nm .
.Pp
On most systems the configuration file(s) are available in:
.Bl -tag -offset indent
.It Pa /etc/smcroute.conf
The traditional location, with all routes, group joins, and interfaces.
.It Pa /etc/smcroute.d/*.conf
Recently an
.Cm include
directive was added to
.Nm ,
which allows for including other files.  By convention
.Pa /etc/smcroute.d/
has been selected as the default in the bundled example
.Nm .
See more about the
.Cm include
directive below.
.El
.Pp
In debug mode,
.Nm smcrouted
logs the success of parsing each line and setting up a route.  There is
also a basic syntax validator built-in, see
.Xr smcrouted 8
for more information.
.Sh SYNTAX
This section details the syntax of each of the available configuration
file directives.
.Pp
Comments start with
.Dq #\&
and run to the end of line.  See the
.Sx EXAMPLE
below.
.Bl -tag -offset indent
.It Cm phyint Ar IFNAME Oo Cm enable | Cm disable Oc Oo Cm mrdisc Oc Oo Cm ttl-threshold Ar TTL Oc
By default all interfaces on the system are enabled and possible to
route between, provided they have the
.Cm MULTICAST
interface flag set.  The
.Cm phyint
directive can be used to selectively enable, or disable, interfaces from
being mapped to virtual interfaces (VIFs), which the multicast routing
stack actually employs.  VIFs are limited, most operating systems only
have 32, it is recommended to disable all interfaces by default, with
.Ql Cm smcrouted Fl N ,
and enable them one by one using this directive.
.Pp
.Cm mrdisc
is an IPv4 specific feature flag to enable Multicast Router Discovery
protocol, RFC4286, announcement.  This standard is supported by some
switch (and router) manufacturers and may be used instead of having
.Cm mgroup
statements for all possible multicast groups you may want to forward.
.Pp
.Cm ttl-threshold
is a very useful setting to help implement "TTL scoping".  I.e., the
minimum TTL level a multicast stream must exceed for the kernel to
consider it to be routed.  The default value (1) means a TTL of 2 or
higher is needed for a frame to be forwarded to the routing stack,
otherwise it is considered link-local.  See
.Xr smcrouted 8
for more information on multicast scoping.
.Pp
.Sy Note:
all
.Cm phyint
directives must be read by
.Nm smcrouted
before any
.Cm mgroup
or
.Cm mroute
that refer to them!  Hence, either place all
.Cm phyint
directives in the main
.Nm
or, if
.Pa /etc/smcroute.d/*.conf
is used, first in a file named,
.Pa 00-phyint.conf ,
or similar.
.It Cm mgroup from Ar IIF Oo Cm source Ar SOURCE[/LEN] Oc Cm group Ar GROUP[/LEN]
Join a multicast group, with optional prefix length, on a given inbound
interface (IIF).  The source address is optional, but if given a source
specific (SSM) join is performed.  Every
.Cm /LEN
is translated to as many sources and groups as specified.  To attempt to
overcome (configured) kernel limitations,
.Nm smcrouted
probes the amount of joins available per socket.  When the socket has
been exhausted, another one is opened.  At most 2048 sockets are opened.
.Pp
The purpose of joining groups is to use layer-2 signaling to inform
switches, and other routers, to open up multicast traffic to your
interfaces.  Leaving a group is not supported from the configuration
file, instead remove the
.Cm mgroup,
or trim its arguments,
.Cm SIGHUP
or
.Cm smcroutectl reload
your daemon.
.Pp
.Sy Note:
use of the
.Cm mgroup
command should be avoided if possible.  Instead configure "router ports"
or similar on the switches (bridges) on your LAN.  This to have them
direct all the multicast to your router, or direct select groups if they
have such capabilities.  Usually MAC multicast filters exist.
.It Cm mroute from Ar IIF Oo Cm source Ar SOURCE[/LEN] Oc Cm group Ar GROUP[/LEN] Cm to Ar OIF Op Ar OIF ...
Add a multicast route for packets received on network interface
.Cm IIF ,
originating from IP address
.Cm SOURCE ,
and sent to the multicast group address
.Cm GROUP ,
to the outbound network interface(s)
.Cm OIF Op Cm OIF ... .
.Pp
The interfaces provided as
.Cm IIF
and
.Cm OIF
can be any network interface name available in the system, as long as it
has the
.Cm MULTICAST
flag set.  Furthermore, the kernel usually only forwards traffic if the
interface(s) have an IP address.  These are limitations posed by the
kernel, not
.Nm smcrouted .
.Pp
To add a (*,G) route, either leave SOURCE out completely or set it to
0.0.0.0, and if you want to specify a range, set GROUP/LEN, e.g.
225.0.0.0/24.
.It Cm include Ar PATH
Include another
.Nm
file, or set of files.  Matching is performed using
.Xr glob 3 ,
and matches are sorted alphabetically.  By convention, the example
.Nm
bundled with
.Nm smcrouted
includes
.Pa /etc/smcroute.d/*.conf .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLE
.Nm smcrouted
supports reading and setting up multicast routes from a config file.
The default location is
.Ar /etc/smcroute.conf ,
but this can be overridden using the
.Fl f Ar FILE
command line option.
.Pp
The
.Ar IIF
and
.Ar OIF
arguments below are interface names, or interface wildcards of the form
.Ar eth+ ,
which matches
.Ar eth0 , eth10 ,
etc.  Wildcards are available for inbound interfaces.
.Pp
.Bd -unfilled -offset indent
#
# smcroute.conf example
#
# Syntax:
#   phyint IFNAME <enable|disable> [mrdisc] [ttl-threshold <1-255>]
#   mgroup from IIF [source ADDR[/LEN]] group GROUP[/LEN]
#   mroute from IIF [source ADDR[/LEN]] group GROUP[/LEN] to OIF [OIF ...]
#   include /path/to/*.conf

# Assuming smcrouted was started with the `-N` flag.  Enable interfaces
# required for inbound and outbound traffic.  TTL scoping is enabled on
# all interfaces, e.g., to use eth0 as n outbound interface (OIF), all
# multicast frames must have a TTL of 12 or greater when ingressing.
phyint eth0 enable ttl-threshold 11
phyint eth1 enable ttl-threshold 3
phyint eth2 enable ttl-threshold 5
phyint virbr0 enable ttl-threshold 5

# Instruct the kernel to join the multicast group 225.1.2.3 on interface
# eth0.  Then add an mroute of the same multicast stream, from the host
# 192.168.1.42 on interface eth0 and forward to eth1 and eth2.
mgroup from eth0                     group 225.1.2.3
mroute from eth0 source 192.168.1.42 group 225.1.2.3 to eth1 eth2

# Similarly, but using source-specific group join
mgroup from virbr0 source 192.168.123.110 group 225.1.2.4
mroute from virbr0 source 192.168.123.110 group 225.1.2.4 to eth0

# Allow multicast for group 225.3.2.1, from ANY source, ingressing on
# interface eth0 to be forwarded to eth1 and eth2.  When the kernel
# receives a frame from unknown multicast sender, it asks smcrouted who
# use this "template" to match against, if the ingressing interface and
# group matches, smcrouted installs an (S,G) route in the kernel MFC.
mgroup from eth0 group 225.3.2.1
mroute from eth0 group 225.3.2.1 to eth1 eth2

# The previous is an example of the (*,G) support.  It is also possible
# to specify a range of such rules.
mgroup from eth0 group 225.0.0.0/24
mroute from eth0 group 225.0.0.0/24 to eth1 eth2

# Include any snippet in /etc/smcroute.d/, but please remember that
# all phyint statements must be read first.
include /etc/smcroute.d/*.conf
.Ed
.Sh CAVEATS
The source address is optional for both IPv4 and IPv6 multicast routes,
this is called (*,G) routing.  When omitted,
.Nm smcrouted
dynamically installs (S,G) routes, matching the group and inbound
interface, to the kernel when it learns of new inbound multicast.  This
feature was inherited from
.Xr mrouted 8 ,
and may not work as intended in all use-cases.  Also, depending on
kernel and CPU load, account for the setup time to detect and install
the route, expect at least one initial frame to be lost when using (*,G)
rules.
.Sh FILES
.Pa /etc/smcroute.conf ,
.Pa /etc/smcroute.d/*.conf
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr smcrouted 8 ,
.Xr smcroute.conf 5
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
SMCRoute was originally created by
.An Carsten Schill Aq Mt carsten@cschill.de .
Initial IPv6 support by
.An Todd Hayton Aq Mt todd.hayton@gmail.com .
Initial FreeBSD support by
.An Micha Lenk Aq Mt micha@debian.org .
.Pp
SMCRoute is currently maintained by
.An Joachim Wiberg Aq Mt troglobit@gmail.com ,
and
.An Micha Lenk Aq Mt micha@debian.org
at
.Lk https://github.com/troglobit/smcroute "GitHub" .
