.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.Dd November 28, 2021
.Dt SMCROUTED 8 SMM
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm smcrouted
.Nd SMCRoute, a static multicast router
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm smcrouted
.Op Fl nNhsv
.Op Fl c Ar SEC
.Op Fl d Ar SEC
.Op Fl e Ar CMD
.Op Fl f Ar FILE
.Op Fl F Ar FILE
.Op Fl i Ar NAME
.Op Fl l Ar LVL
.Op Fl m Ar SEC
.Op Fl p Ar USER:GROUP
.Op Fl P Ar FILE
.Op Fl t Ar ID
.Op Fl u Ar FILE
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a static multicast routing daemon providing fine grained control over
the multicast forwarding cache (MFC) in the UNIX kernel.  Both IPv4 and
IPv6 are fully supported.
.Pp
.Nm
can be used as an alternative to dynamic multicast daemons like
.Xr mrouted 8 ,
.Xr pimd 8
or
.Xr pim6sd 8
in situations where static multicast routes should be maintained and/or
no proper IGMP or MLD signaling exists.
.Pp
Multicast routes exist in the UNIX kernel only as long as a multicast
routing daemon is running.  On Linux, multiple multicast routers can run
simultaneously using different multicast routing tables.  To run
.Nm
and,
.Nm mrouted
at the same time, set the former to use a routing table other than the
default (0).
.Pp
.Nm
modifies the kernel routing table and needs either full
.Ar superuser rights ,
or
.Cm CAP_NET_ADMIN
on Linux.  This also applies to the friendly control tool
.Xr smcroutectl 8 .
.Ss Warning
Be careful when creating multicast routes.  You can easily flood your
networks by inadvertently creating routing loops.  Either direct loops
listing an inbound interface also as an outbound, or indirect loops by
going through other routers.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following command line options are available:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c Ar SEC
Flush unused dynamic (*,G) multicast routes every
.Ar SEC
seconds.
.Pp
This option is intended for systems with topology changes, i.e., when
inbound multicast may change both interface and source IP address.
E.g. in a setup with at least two VRRP routers.  If there is no way of
detecting such a topology change this option makes sure to periodically
flush all dynamically learned multicast routes so that traffic may
resume.  Flushing of a specific route only occurs if it was unused
during the last flush interval, i.e. there was no traffic matching it.
This avoids toggling between different inbound interfaces if traffic
arrives on several interfaces simultaneously.  In this case, the first
selected inbound interface is retained until traffic on it ceases.
.Pp
Default is 60 sec, set to 0 to disable.  See also the
.Cm smcroutectl flush
command, which can be called manually on topology changes.
.It Fl d Ar SEC
Daemon startup delay.  Delays the probe of interfaces and parsing of the
configuration file.  Note, the PID file is also not created, since the
daemon is not ready yet.
.Pp
This command line option, although useful in some use-cases, is fragile.
It is almost always better to rely on an init or process supervisor that
handles dependencies properly, like
.Xr finit 8 ,
which can wait for interfaces to come up and files to be created before
starting a service.
.It Fl e Ar CMD
Specify external script or command to be called when
.Nm
has loaded/reloaded all static multicast routes from the configuration
file, or when a source-less (ANY) rule has been installed.
.It Fl f Ar FILE
Alternate configuration file, default
.Pa /etc/smcroute.conf
.It Fl F Ar FILE
Check configuration file syntax, use
.Fl l Ar LEVEL
to increase verbosity.  Returns non-zero on error.
.It Fl h
Show summary of command line options and exit.
.It Fl i Ar NAME
Set daemon identity.  Used to create unique PID, IPC socket, and
configuration file names, as well as set the syslog identity.  E.g.,
.Fl I Ar foo
would make
.Nm
look for
.Cm /etc/foo.conf ,
write its PID to
.Cm /var/run/foo.pid
and create an IPC socket for
.Nm smcroutectl
in
.Cm /var/run/foo.sock .
.Pp
For
.Nm smcroutectl
the same option can be used to select the proper
.Nm
instance to send IPC to.
.Pp
This option is required for both daemon and client when running multiple
.Nm
instances, using multiple routing tables, on Linux.
.It Fl l Ar LEVEL
Set log level: none, err, notice, info, debug.  Default is notice.
.It Fl m Ar SEC
Modify Multicast Router Discovery (mrdisc) announcement interval.
Default 20 sec.  This option is only available when
.Nm
is built with mrdisc support (Linux, and IPv4, only). RFC4286.
.It Fl n
Run daemon in foreground, do not detach from controlling terminal
.It Fl N
By default
.Nm
enables multicast routing on all available, and multicast capable,
interfaces in the system.  These interfaces are enumerated as VIFs,
virtual interfaces, of which most UNIX systems have a very limited
amount, usually 32.  This daemon option inverts the behavior so no
interfaces are enabled by default.  Useful on systems with many
interfaces, where multicast routing only makes use of a few.
.Pp
The config file setting
.Ar phyint IFNAME enable
is required to enable the required interfaces.
.It Fl p Ar USER Op :GROUP
Drop root privileges to USER:GROUP after start and retain CAP_NET_ADMIN
capabilities only.  The :GROUP is optional.  This option is only
available when
.Nm
is built with libcap support.
.It Fl P Ar FILE
Set PID file name, and optionally full path, in case you need to
override the default identity, or the identity set with
.Fl i Ar NAME .
Regardless, setting this option overrides all others, but it is
recommended to use the ident option instead.
.It Fl s
Let daemon log to syslog, default unless running in foreground.
.It Fl t Ar ID
Set multicast routing table ID.  Remember to also create routing rules
directing packets to the table.  This example uses routing table ID 123:
.Bd -unfilled -offset left
ip mrule add iif eth0 lookup 123
ip mrule add oif eth0 lookup 123
.Ed
.Pp
.Nm Note:
Only available on Linux.
.It Fl u Ar FILE
UNIX domain socket path, used for the IPC between
.Nm
and
.Nm smcroutectl .
Use this to override the default socket path, derived from the daemon
identity,
.Fl i Ar NAME .
This option can be useful when overriding the identity is not
sufficient, e.g. for testing.  The default depends on how
.Nm
is configured at build time, see
.Sx FILES .
.It Fl v
Show program version and support information.
.El
.Pp
The
.Fl e Ar CMD
option is useful if you want to trigger other processes to start when
.Nm
has completed installing dynamic multicast routes from (*,G) rules in
.Pa /etc/smcroute.conf ,
or when a source-less (ANY) route, a.k.a (*,G) multicast rule, from
.Pa /etc/smcroute.conf .
is matched and installed.  For instance, calling
.Ar conntrack
on Linux to flush firewall connection tracking when NAT:ing multicast.
.Pp
The script
.Ar CMD
is called with an argument
.Ar reload
or
.Ar install
to let the script know if it is called on SIGHUP/startup, or when a
(*,G) rule is matched and installed.  In the latter case
.Nm
also sets two environment variables:
.Nm source ,
and
.Nm group .
Beware that these environment variables are unconditionally overwritten by
.Nm
and can thus not be used to pass information to the script from outside of
.Nm .
.Sh OPERATION
.Ss Introduction
When
.Nm
starts up it scans for available network interfaces that have the
.Cm MULTICAST
flag set.  Provided the
.Fl N
flag is not set, each interface is enumerated as a virtual interface
(VIF) which is what the kernel's multicast routing stack uses.  The
enumeration process on some operating systems also require each
interface to have an IP address, but Linux and FreeBSD systems only
require the ifindex and the MULTICAST flag.  If the interface does not
yet exist when
.Nm
starts, the
.Fl d Ar SEC
flag can be used to delay startup.  Otherwise
.Nm
needs to be reloaded (e.g., using SIGHUP) when a new interface has been
added to the system.
.Pp
Since VIFs are a limited resource, most operating systems only support
32 in total, the administrator may need to declare which interfaces to
use for multicast routing using the
.Pa /etc/smcroute.conf
.Cm phyint
directive.  It is recommended to always start
.Nm
with the
.Fl N
flag, disabling VIF creation by default, and then selectively enable
each of the interfaces you are going to route between.  See
.Xr smcroute.conf 5
for more information.
.Ss Multicast Scoping
Because multicast inherently is broadcast there is an obvious need to
limit.  On a LAN this is usually managed automatically by bridges
(switches) with built-in multicast snooping (IGMP and MLD).  Between
LANs there is also the need to scope multicast, often the same multicast
groups are used for different purposes on different LANs.  This must be
managed by administrators, at least three options exist:
.Bl -tag -offset indent
.It Cm TTL scoping
The traditional way of "raising walls" between zones.  The outbound
interfaces of routers are given a TTL threshold greater than the hop it
represents.  The default TTL threshold is 1.  Managing the routers is a
lot easier than adjusting the TTL value of each multicast sender.  The
only real downside to this is that it scales poorly with the number of
routers and it affects all multicast traversing the router's interfaces.
.It Cm Administrative scoping (RFC2365)
This is one of the current best practices, defining boundaries for sets
of multicast groups instead of limiting all multicast (as TTL scoping
does).  In the case of
.Nm
this is left to the administrator to manage.  See
.Xr mrouted 8 ,
and
.Xr mrouted.conf 5 ,
for more details.
.It Cm Filtering
Some sort of filtering mechanism, e.g., firewall (Linux netfilter) or
low-level filter (Linux tc or eBPF) that may even have some hardware
offloading support (TCAM).  The firewall is likely the most common since
it is also often used to set up SNAT or 1:1 NAT (Linux netmap).
.El
.Ss Multicast Routes
.Pp
A multicast route is defined by an input interface
.Ar IFNAME ,
the sender's unicast IP address
.Ar SOURCE ,
which is optional, the multicast group
.Ar GROUP
and a list of, at least one, output interface
.Ar IFNAME [IFNAME ...] .
.Pp
.Bd -unfilled -offset indent
mroute from eth0                  group 225.1.2.3  to eth1 eth2
mroute from eth0 source 1.2.3.4   group 225.3.2.1  to eth1 eth2

mroute from eth0                  group  ff2e::42  to eth1 eth2
mroute from eth0 source 2001:3::1 group  ff2e::43  to eth1 eth2
.Ed
.Pp
The sender address and multicast group must both be either IPv4 or IPv6
addresses.
.Pp
The output interfaces are not needed when removing routes using the
.Cm smcroutectl remove
command.  The first three parameters are sufficient to identify the
source of the multicast route.
.Pp
The intended purpose of
.Nm
is to aid in situations where dynamic multicast routing does not work
properly.  However, a dynamic multicast routing protocol is in nearly
all cases the preferred solution.  The reason for this is their ability
to translate Layer-3 signaling to Layer-2 and vice versa (IGMP or MLD).
.Pp
.Sy Note:
the optional source address multicast routes are not installed in the
kernel multicast forwarding cache (MFC) by
.Nm .
Instead, it dynamically installs new routes to the kernel MFC, matching
the group and inbound interface, when the kernel notifies
.Nm
using "upcalls" called
.Cm NOCACHE
messages.  This feature was grafted onto
.Nm
from
.Xr mrouted 8 ,
and may not work as intended in all use-cases.
.Pp
.Ss Multicast Groups
.Nm
is capable of simple group join and leave by sending commands to the kernel.
The kernel then handles sending Layer-2 IGMP/MLD join and leave frames as needed.
This can be used for testing but is also useful sometimes to open up
multicast from the sender if located on a LAN with switches equipped
with IGMP/MLD Snooping.  Such devices will prevent forwarding of
multicast unless an IGMP/MLD capable router or multicast client is
located on the same physical port as you run
.Nm
on.  However, this feature of
.Nm
is only intended as a workaround.  Some platforms impose a limit on the
maximum number of groups that can be joined, some of these systems can
be tuned to increase this limit.  For bigger installations it is
strongly recommended to instead address the root cause, e.g. enable
multicast router ports on intermediate switches, either statically or by
enabling the multicast router discovery feature of
.Nm .
.Pp
To emulate a multicast client using
.Nm
you use the
.Nm join
and
.Nm leave
commands to issue join and leave commands for a given multicast group
on a given interface
.Ar IFNAME .
The
.Ar GROUP
may be given in an IPv4 or IPv6 address format.
.Pp
The command is passed to the daemon that passes it to the kernel. The
kernel then tries to join the multicast group
.Ar GROUP
on interface
.Ar IFNAME
by starting IGMP, or MLD for IPv6 group address, signaling on the given
interface.  This signaling may be received by routers/switches connected
on that network supporting IGMP/MLD multicast signaling and, in turn,
start forwarding the requested multicast stream eventually reach your
desired interface.
.Pp
.Ss Multiple Daemon Instances
When running multiple
.Nm
instances, using the
.Fl t Ar ID
command line flag, one per routing table on Linux, it is required to use
the
.Fl i Ar NAME
option to both daemon and client.  This because the name of the IPC
socket used for communicating is composed from the identity.
.Sh DEBUGGING
The most common problem when attempting to route multicast is the TTL.
Always start by verifying that the TTL of your multicast stream is not
set to 1, because the router decrements the TTL of an IP frame before
routing it.  Test your setup using
.Xr ping 8
or
.Xr iperf 1 .
Either of which is capable of creating multicast traffic with an
adjustable TTL.  Iperf in particular is useful since it can act both as
a multicast source (sender) and a multicast sink (receiver).  For more
advanced IP multicast testing the
.Xr mcjoin 1
tool can be used.
.Pp
.Ss Note
A lot of extra information is sent under the daemon facility and the
debug priority to the syslog daemon.  Use
.Ql smcrouted -s -l debug
to enable.
.Sh SIGNALS
For convenience in sending signals,
.Nm
writes its process ID to
.Pa /var/run/smcroute.pid
upon startup, unless the
.Fl p Ar FILE
or
.Fl i Ar NAME
options are used to change the identity or file name used.  The
following signals are supported:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width TERM -compact
.It Cm HUP
Tell
.Nm
to reload its configuration file and activate the changes.
.It Cm INT
Terminates execution gracefully.
.It Cm TERM
The same as INT.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /proc/net/ip6_mr_cache -compact
.It Pa /etc/smcroute.conf
Optional configuration file for
.Nm .
Defined interfaces to use, groups to join, and routes to set when
starting, or reloading
.Nm
on
.Ar SIGHUP .
Like the PID file, the name of the configuration file may be different
depending on command line options given to the daemon.  Most notably,
.Fl I Ar IDENT
defines the full suite of files used by the
.Nm
daemon.  See
.Xr smcroute.conf 5
for details.
.It Pa /etc/smcroute.d/*.conf
Optional configuration directory, path defined by convention only, actual
configuration directory, or file(s) to include, defined by
.Pa /etc/smcroute.conf .
See
.Xr smcroute.conf 5
for details.
.It Pa /var/run/smcroute.pid
Default PID file (re)created by
.Nm
when it has started up and is ready to receive commands.  See also the
.Fl i Ar NAME
or
.Fl P Ar FILE
options which can change the default name.
.It Pa /var/run/smcroute.sock
IPC socket created by
.Nm
for use by
.Nm smcroutectl .
Same caveats apply to this file as the previous two, command line
options
.Fl i Ar NAME
and
.Fl S Ar FILE
to the daemon can be used to change the socket file name.
.It Pa /proc/net/ip_mr_cache
Linux specific, holds active IPv4 multicast routes.
.It Pa /proc/net/ip_mr_vif
Linux specific, holds the IPv4 virtual interfaces used by the active multicast routing daemon.
.It Pa /proc/net/ip6_mr_cache
Linux specific, holds active IPv6 multicast routes.
.It Pa /proc/net/ip6_mr_vif
Linux specific, holds the IPv6 virtual interfaces used by the active multicast routing daemon.
.It Pa /proc/net/igmp
Linux specific, holds active IGMP ASM (*,G) joins.
.It Pa /proc/net/igmp6
Linux specific, holds active MLD ASM (*,G) joins.
.It Pa /proc/net/mcfilter
Linux specific, holds active IGMP SSM (S,G) joins.
.It Pa /proc/net/mcfilter6
Linux specific, holds active MLD SSM (S,G) joins.
.It Pa /proc/sys/net/ipv4/igmp_max_memberships
Linux specific tuning of max IGMP ASM (*,G) per socket, default 20.
.It Pa /proc/sys/net/ipv4/igmp_max_msf
Linux specific tuning of max IGMP SSM (S,G) per socket, default 10.
.El
.Pp
BSD systems may consult the
.Xr netstat 1
tool for stats on virtual multicast interface tables and multicast
forwarding caches, and VIF/MIF allocation, as well as the
.Xr ifmcstat 8
tool for querying group membership.
.Xr 
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Nm
leverages BSD
.Pa sysexits.h
exit codes (64-78), which process supervisors like
.Xr systemd 1
and
.Xr finit 8
understands.  The following table details what codes are used for and
how to interpret them.
.Bl -column "Status" "Symbolic Name" "Description" -offset indent
.It Sy Status Ta Sy Symbolic Name  Ta Sy Description
.It 0    Ta EX_OK          Ta Success
.It 64   Ta EX_USAGE       Ta Invalid command line option, or missing argument
.It 69   Ta EX_UNAVAILABLE Ta Multicast routing socket (or table) already in use
.It 79   Ta EX_SOFTWARE    Ta Internal error, bug in
.Nm
.It 71   Ta EX_OSERR       Ta Failed
.Fn fork ,
.Fn daemon ,
.Fn getifaddrs ,
.Fn malloc ,
etc.
.It 76   Ta EX_PROTOCOL    Ta Kernel does not seem to support multicast routing
.It 77   Ta EX_NOPERM      Ta Not enough permissions to run
.It 78   Ta EX_CONFIG      Ta Parse error in configuration file
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr smcroute.conf 5 ,
.Xr smcroutectl 8 ,
.Xr mrouted 8 ,
.Xr pimd 8 ,
.Xr pim6sd 8 ,
.Xr ping 8 ,
.Xr mcjoin 1 ,
.Xr iperf 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
SMCRoute was originally created by
.An Carsten Schill Aq Mt carsten@cschill.de .
Initial IPv6 support by
.An Todd Hayton Aq Mt todd.hayton@gmail.com .
Initial FreeBSD support by
.An Micha Lenk Aq Mt micha@debian.org .
.Pp
SMCRoute is currently maintained by
.An Joachim Wiberg Aq Mt troglobit@gmail.com ,
and
.An Micha Lenk Aq Mt micha@debian.org
at
.Lk https://github.com/troglobit/smcroute "GitHub" .
