.TH NFS.CONF 5
.SH NAME
nfs.conf \- general configuration for NFS daemons and tools
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I /etc/nfs.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This file contains site-specific configuration for various NFS daemons
and other processes.  Most configuration can also be passed to
processes via command line arguments, but it can be more convenient to
have a central file.  In particular, this encourages consistent
configuration across different processes.
.PP
When command line options are provided, they override values set in
this file.  When this file does not specify a particular parameter,
and no command line option is provided, each tool provides its own
default values.
.PP
The file format supports multiple sections, each of which can contain
multiple value assignments.  A section is introduced by a line
containing the section name enclosed in square brackets, so
.RS
.B [global]
.RE
would introduce a section called
.BR global .
A value assignment is a single line that has the name of the value, an
equals sign, and a setting for the value, so
.RS
.B threads = 4
.RE
would set the value named
.B threads
in the current section to
.BR 4 .
Leading and trailing spaces and tab
are ignored, as are spaces and tabs surrounding the equals sign.
Single and double quotes surrounding the assigned value are also
removed.  If the resulting string is empty, the whole assignment
is ignored.
.PP
Any line starting with
.RB \*(lq # \*(rq
or
.RB \*(lq ; \*(rq
is ignored, as is any blank line.
.PP
If the assigned value started with a
.RB \*(lq $ \*(rq
then the remainder is treated as a name and looked for in the section
.B [environment]
or in the processes environment (see
.BR environ (7)).
The value found is used for this value.
.PP
The value name
.B include
is special.  If a section contains
.RS
.B include = /some/file/name
.RE
then the named file will be read, and any value assignments found
there-in will be added to the current section.  If the file contains
section headers, then new sections will be created just as if the
included file appeared in place of the
.B include
line.
If the file name starts with a hyphen then that is stripped off
before the file is opened, and if file doesn't exist no warning is
given.  Normally a non-existent include file generates a warning.
.PP
Lookup of section and value names is case-insensitive.

Where a Boolean value is expected, any of
.BR true ,
.BR t ,
.BR yes ,
.BR y ,
.BR on ", or"
.B 1
can be used for "true", while
.BR false ,
.BR f ,
.BR no ,
.BR n ,
.BR off ", or"
.B 0
can be used for "false".  Comparisons are case-insensitive.

.SH SECTIONS
The following sections are known to various programs, and can contain
the given named values.  Most sections can also contain a
.B debug
value, which can be one or more from the list
.BR general ,
.BR call ,
.BR auth ,
.BR parse ,
.BR all .
When a list is given, the members should be comma-separated.
.TP
.B general
Recognized values:
.BR pipefs-directory .

See
.BR blkmapd (8),
.BR rpc.idmapd (8),
and
.BR rpc.gssd (8)
for details.

.TP
.B exports
Recognized values:
.BR rootdir .

Setting
.B rootdir
to a valid path causes the nfs server to act as if the
supplied path is being prefixed to all the exported entries. For
instance, if
.BR rootdir=/my/root ,
and there is an entry in /etc/exports for
.BR /filesystem ,
then the client will be able to mount the path as
.BR /filesystem ,
but on the server, this will resolve to the path
.BR /my/root/filesystem .

.TP
.B exportd
Recognized values:
.BR threads ,
.BR cache-use-upaddr ,
.BR ttl ,
.BR state-directory-path

See
.BR exportd (8)
for details.

Note that setting 
.B "\[dq]debug = auth\[dq]"
for
.B exportd
is equivalent to providing the
.B \-\-log\-auth
option.

.TP
.B nfsdcltrack
Recognized values:
.BR storagedir .

The
.B nfsdcltrack
program is run directly by the Linux kernel and there is no
opportunity to provide command line arguments, so the configuration
file is the only way to configure this program.  See
.BR nfsdcltrack (8)
for details.

.TP
.B nfsd
Recognized values:
.BR threads ,
.BR host ,
.BR port ,
.BR grace-time ,
.BR lease-time ,
.BR udp ,
.BR tcp ,
.BR vers3 ,
.BR vers4 ,
.BR vers4.0 ,
.BR vers4.1 ,
.BR vers4.2 ,
.BR rdma ,

Version and protocol values are Boolean values as described above,
and are also used by
.BR rpc.mountd .
Threads and the two times are integers.
.B port
and
.B rdma
are service names or numbers.  See
.BR rpc.nfsd (8)
for details.

.TP
.B mountd
Recognized values:
.BR manage-gids ,
.BR descriptors ,
.BR port ,
.BR threads ,
.BR reverse-lookup ,
.BR cache-use-upaddr ,
.BR ttl ,
.BR state-directory-path ,
.BR ha-callout .

These, together with the protocol and version values in the
.B [nfsd]
section, are used to configure mountd.  See
.BR rpc.mountd (8)
for details.

Note that setting 
.B "\[dq]debug = auth\[dq]"
for
.B mountd
is equivalent to providing the
.B \-\-log\-auth
option.

The
.B state-directory-path
value in the
.B [mountd]
section is also used by
.BR exportfs (8).

.TP
.B statd
Recognized values:
.BR port ,
.BR outgoing-port ,
.BR name ,
.BR state-directory-path ,
.BR ha-callout .

See
.BR rpc.statd (8)
for details.

.TP
.B lockd
Recognized values:
.B port
and
.BR udp-port .

See
.BR rpc.statd (8)
for details.

.TP
.B sm-notify
Recognized values:
.BR retry-time ,
.BR outgoing-port ", and"
.BR outgoing-addr .

See
.BR sm-notify (8)
for details.

.TP
.B gssd
Recognized values:
.BR verbosity ,
.BR rpc-verbosity ,
.BR use-memcache ,
.BR use-machine-creds ,
.BR use-gss-proxy ,
.BR avoid-dns ,
.BR limit-to-legacy-enctypes ,
.BR context-timeout ,
.BR rpc-timeout ,
.BR keytab-file ,
.BR cred-cache-directory ,
.BR preferred-realm ,
.BR set-home .

See
.BR rpc.gssd (8)
for details.

.TP
.B svcgssd
Recognized values:
.BR principal .

See
.BR rpc.svcgssd (8)
for details.

.TP
.B exportfs
Only
.B debug=
is recognized.

.TP
.B nfsrahead
Recognized values:
.BR nfs ,
.BR nfsv4 ,
.BR default .

See
.BR nfsrahead (5)
for deatils.

.SH FILES
.TP 10n
.I /etc/nfs.conf
Default NFS client configuration file
.TP 10n
.I /etc/nfs.conf.d
When this directory exists and files ending 
with ".conf" exist, those files will be
used to set configuration variables. These
files will override variables set in /etc/nfs.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nfsdcltrack (8),
.BR rpc.nfsd (8),
.BR rpc.mountd (8),
.BR nfsmount.conf (5).
