.TH xfs_ncheck 8
.SH NAME
xfs_ncheck \- generate pathnames from i-numbers for XFS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xfs_ncheck
[
.B \-i
.I ino
] ... [
.B \-f
] [
.B \-s
] [
.B \-l
.I logdev
]
.I device
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xfs_ncheck
with no
.B \-i
arguments generates an inode number and pathname list of all
files on the given filesystem. Names of directory files are followed by
.BR /. .
The output is not sorted in any particular order.
The filesystem to be examined is specified by the
.I device
argument, which should be the disk or volume device for the filesystem.
Filesystems stored in files can also be checked, using the
.B \-f
flag.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 0.9i
.B \-f
Specifies that the filesystem image to be processed is stored in a
regular file at
.I device
(see the
.B mkfs.xfs \-d
.I \f2file\f1
option). This might happen if an image copy
of a filesystem has been made into an ordinary file.
.TP
.BI \-l " logdev"
Specifies the device where the filesystem's external log resides.
Only for those filesystems which use an external log. See the
.B mkfs.xfs \-l
option, and refer to
.BR xfs (5)
for a detailed description of the XFS log.
.TP
.B \-s
Limits the report to special files and files with setuserid mode.
This option may be used to detect violations of security policy.
.TP
.BI \-i " ino"
Limits the report to only those files whose inode numbers follow.
May be given multiple times to select multiple inode numbers.
.PP
If the filesystem is seriously corrupted, or very busy and looks
like it is corrupt, a message of the form that would be generated by
.BR xfs_check (8)
may appear.
.PP
.B xfs_ncheck
is only useful with XFS filesystems.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkfs.xfs (8),
.BR xfs_check (8),
.BR xfs (5).
