.\" Verbatim blocks taken from openssl req manpage content
.de Vb \" Begin verbatim text
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve \" End verbatim text
.ft R
.fi
..

.TH xfs_info 8
.SH NAME
xfs_info \- display XFS filesystem geometry information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xfs_info
[
.B \-t
.I mtab
]
[
.I mount-point
|
.I block-device
|
.I file-image
]
.br
.B xfs_info \-V
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xfs_info
displays geometry information about an existing XFS filesystem.
The
.I mount-point
argument is the pathname of a directory where the filesystem
is mounted.
The
.I block-device
or
.I file-image
contain a raw XFS filesystem.
The existing contents of the filesystem are undisturbed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-t
Specifies an alternate mount table file (default is
.I /proc/mounts
if it exists, else
.IR /etc/mtab ).
This is used when working with filesystems mounted without writing to
.I /etc/mtab
file - refer to
.BR mount (8)
for further details.
This option has no effect with the
.IR block-device " or " file-image
parameters.
.TP
.B \-V
Prints the version number and exits. The
.I mount-point
argument is not required with
.BR \-V .
.SH "EXAMPLES"

Understanding xfs_info output.
.PP
Suppose one has the following "xfs_info /dev/sda" output:
.PP
.RS 2
.Vb
\&meta-data=/dev/pmem0             isize=512    agcount=8, agsize=5974144 blks
\&         =                       sectsz=512   attr=2, projid32bit=1
\&         =                       crc=1        finobt=1, sparse=1, rmapbt=1
\&         =                       reflink=1
\&data     =                       bsize=4096   blocks=47793152, imaxpct=25
\&         =                       sunit=32     swidth=128 blks
\&naming   =version 2              bsize=4096   ascii-ci=0, ftype=1
\&log      =internal log           bsize=4096   blocks=23336, version=2
\&         =                       sectsz=512   sunit=0 blks, lazy-count=1
\&realtime =none                   extsz=4096   blocks=0, rtextents=0
.Ve
.RE
.PP

Here, the data section of the output indicates "bsize=4096",
meaning the data block size for this filesystem is 4096 bytes.
This section also shows "sunit=32 swidth=128 blks", which means
the stripe unit is 32*4096 bytes = 128 kibibytes and the stripe
width is 128*4096 bytes = 512 kibibytes.
A single stripe of this filesystem therefore consists
of four stripe units (128 blocks / 32 blocks per unit).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkfs.xfs (8),
.BR md (4),
.BR lvm (8),
.BR mount (8).
