.TH MACTELNET 1 "February 27, 2011"
.SH NAME
mactelnet \- A tool for telneting via MAC addresses
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mactelnet
.RI [ options ] " " < MAC-Address | hostname >
.SH DESCRIPTION
This tool enables you to telnet other RouterOS or MAC-Telnetd enabled
devices. You can connect to either a hostname or a MAC address.
If specified, the hostname (identity) will be looked up via MNDP discovery.
.SH OPTIONS
These programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax.
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-l
This will discover RouterOS or MAC-Telnetd enabled devices. It will
list the MAC-address software version, and uptime of every device
or machine it discovers. To exit the discovery, use
.B Control + C
\.
.TP
.B \-n
Do not use broadcast packets. A tad less insecure but requires root privileges.
This means that ethernet packets will have the specified mac-address as the packet
destination, instead of using the ethernet broadcast address.
.TP
.B \-t
Amount of seconds to wait for a response on each interface. If you have several network interfaces, this is the timeout value per interface.
.TP
.B \-u
Specify username. Without this option, you will need to enter the username in a interactive prompt.
.TP
.B \-p
Specify password. Without this option, you will need to enter the password in a interactive prompt.
.TP
.B \-a
Specify the path of the autologin configuration file. The default path for this file is ~/.mactelnet. The format for this file is standard INI file layout.
.TP
.B \-A
Do not use the autologin configuration file. Interactively ask for username and password.
.TP
.B \-h
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-v
Show version of program.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mndp (1),
.BR mactelnetd (1),
.BR macping (1).
.SH AUTHOR
mactelnet was written by Håkon Nessjøen <haakon.nessjoen@gmail.com>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Håkon Nessjøen <haakon.nessjoen@gmail.com>,
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
