.TH "xl2tpd-control" "8" "" "Alexander Dorokhov" ""
.SH "NAME"
xl2tpd\-control \- Layer 2 Tunnelling Protocol Daemon Contorl Utility
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
A Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol Daemon Control Utility for Linux.

Currently maintained by Xelerance
  http://www.xelerance.com/software/xl2tpd/

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP \w'\fBipsec\fR\ 'u
\fBxl2tpd-control\fR [\fI-c\fR <PATH>] \fI<command>\fR \fI<tunnel name>\fR [\fI<COMMAND OPTIONS>\fR]


.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B -c
This option specifies xl2tpd control file

.TP
.B -d
This option specify xl2tpd-control to run in debug mode

.SH "COMMANDS"
.TP
.B add
Adds new or modify existing lac configuration. Configuration must be
specified as command options in <key>=<value> pairs format. See available
options in xl2tpd.conf(5)

.TP
.B connect
Tries to activate the tunnel. Username and secret for the tunnel can be
passed as command options.

.TP
.B disconnect
Disconnects the tunnel.

.TP
.B remove

.TP
.B add-lac
Adds new or modify existing lac configuration.

.TP
.B connect-lac

.TP
.B disconnect-lac

.TP
.B remove-lac

.TP
.B add-lns
Adds new or modify existing lns configuration.

.TP
.B remove-lns

.TP
.B status

.TP
.B status-lns

.TP
.B available

.SH "BUGS"

Please address bugs and comment to xl2tpd@lists.xelerance.com
.SH "SEE ALSO"

\fB\fRxl2tpd.conf(5)
.SH "AUTHORS"
Forked from l2tpd by Xelerance (http://www.xelerance.com/software/xl2tpd/

Michael Richardson <mcr@xelerance.com>
Paul Wouters <paul@xelerance.com>
Samir Hussain <shussain@xelerance.com>

Many thanks to Jacco de Leeuw <jacco2@dds.nl> for maintaining l2tpd.

Patched contributed by:
Alexander Dorokhov <alex.dorokhov@gmail.com>

Previous development was hosted at sourceforge
(http://www.sourceforge.net/projects/l2tpd) by:
.P
Scott Balmos <sbalmos@iglou.com>
.br
David Stipp <dstipp@one.net>
.br
Jeff McAdams <jeffm@iglou.com>

Based off of l2tpd version 0.60
.br
Copyright (C)1998 Adtran, Inc.
.br
Mark Spencer <markster@marko.net>
