src/router/wolfssl/IDE/Espressif/ESP-IDF/examples/wolfssl_benchmark/README.md, before:

# wolfSSL Benchmark Example

This ESP32 example uses the [wolfSSL wolfcrypt Benchmark Application](https://github.com/wolfSSL/wolfssl/tree/master/wolfcrypt/benchmark).

For general information on [wolfSSL examples for Espressif](../README.md), see the
[README](https://github.com/wolfSSL/wolfssl/blob/master/IDE/Espressif/ESP-IDF/README.md) file.

## Espressif ESP Component Registry

See the wolfSSL namespace at [components.espressif.com](https://components.espressif.com/components?q=wolfssl)


## Windows COM Port

All of these examples use COM20 on Windows. The DOS `change port` command can be use to assign any
other local port to `COM20` as needed:

```
change port com20=com23
```

## VisualGDB

Open the VisualGDB Visual Studio Project file in the VisualGDB directory and click the "Start" button.
No wolfSSL setup is needed. You may need to adjust your specific COM port. The default is `COM20`.

Include in the respective project `./VisualGDB` directory are [VisualGDB](https://visualgdb.com/) project files.
Individual project files are included for convenience to new users,
as there are [difficulties switching between ESP-IDF Versions or Chipsets](https://sysprogs.com/w/forums/topic/difficulties-switching-espressif-esp-idf-version-or-chipset/)
using the VisualGDB extension.

The naming convention for project files is: `[project name]_IDF_[Version]_[chipset].vgdbproj`. The solution files (filename[.sln]) often will contain shortcuts to commonly used source and configuration files used by the respective project.


-------- |------------- |------------- |
ChipSet  | ESP-IDF v4.4 | ESP-IDF v5.1 |
-------- |------------- |------------- |
ESP32    |      x       |              |
ESP32-S2 |              |              |
ESP32-S3 |      x       |      x       |
ESP32-C3 |      x       |      x       |
ESP32-C6 |              |              |


The default directories are:

- `C:\SysGCC` - The root directory install of VisualGDB
- `C:\SysGCC\esp32` - The default for ESP-IDF v5.x
- `C:\SysGCC\esp32-8.4` - Many need to manually select this name for ESP-IDF v4.x install
- `C:\SysGCC\esp8266`- The default for ESP8266

Windows ports assigned with the `change port` command may not appear in the VisualGDB dropdowns but can still
be used when manually typed.
See the [feature request](https://sysprogs.com/w/forums/topic/feature-request-show-windows-change-port-results-in-com-port-dropdown-lists/).

## ESP-IDF Commandline

1. `idf.py menuconfig` to configure the program.  
    1-1. Example Configuration ->

    BENCH_ARG : argument that you want to use. Default is "-lng 0"  
    The list of argument can be find in help.

When you want to run the benchmark program

1. `idf.py -p <PORT> flash` to compile and load the firmware
2. `idf.py monitor` to see the message

See the README.md file in the upper level 'examples' directory for more information about examples.

## Performance

Reminder than when building on WSL in `/mnt/c` there will be a noticeable performance degradation at compile time. Using `~/` will be faster at the cost of shared filesystems.

Example build on WSL:

```
Optionally update toolchain

cd /mnt/c/SysGCC/esp32/esp-idf/master
git fetch
git pull
git submodule update --init --recursive

cd /mnt/c/workspace/wolfssl/IDE/Espressif/ESP-IDF/examples/wolfssl_benchmark

# Pick ESP-IDF install directory, this one for v5.1 in VisualGDB

WRK_IDF_PATH=/mnt/c/SysGCC/esp32/esp-idf/v5.1
WRK_IDF_PATH=/mnt/c/SysGCC/esp32-8.4/esp-idf/v4.4.1
WRK_IDF_PATH=~/esp/esp-idf

. $WRK_IDF_PATH/export.sh

# Set target SoC
idf.py set-target esp32c3

# Optionally erase

# Build and flash
idf.py build flash -p /dev/ttyS20 -b 115200 monitor
```

## Example Output

Note the default wolfSSL `user_settings.h` is configured by default to be the most 
compatible across the widest ranges of targets. Contact wolfSSL at support@wolfssl.com
for help in optimizing for your particular application, or see the 
[docs](https://www.wolfssl.com/documentation/manuals/wolfssl/index.html).

Compiled and flashed with `idf.py build  flash -p /dev/ttyS7 -b 115200 monitor`:

```
--- idf_monitor on /dev/ttyS7 115200 ---
--- Quit: Ctrl+] | Menu: Ctrl+T | Help: Ctrl+T followed by Ctrl+H ---
 (377) cpu_start: Starting scheduler ets Jun  8 2016 00:22:57

rst:0x1 (POWERON_RESET),boot:0x13 (SPI_FAST_FLASH_BOOT)
configsip: 0, SPIWP:0xee
clk_drv:0x00,q_drv:0x00,d_drv:0x00,cs0_drv:0x00,hd_drv:0x00,wp_drv:0x00
mode:DIO, clock div:2
load:0x3fff0030,len:6664
load:0x40078000,len:14848
load:0x40080400,len:3792
0x40080400: _init at ??:?

entry 0x40080694
I (27) boot: ESP-IDF v4.4.2-dirty 2nd stage bootloader
I (27) boot: compile time 13:41:41
I (27) boot: chip revision: 1
I (30) boot_comm: chip revision: 1, min. bootloader chip revision: 0
I (37) boot.esp32: SPI Speed      : 40MHz
I (42) boot.esp32: SPI Mode       : DIO
I (46) boot.esp32: SPI Flash Size : 2MB
I (51) boot: Enabling RNG early entropy source...
I (56) boot: Partition Table:
I (60) boot: ## Label            Usage          Type ST Offset   Length
I (67) boot:  0 nvs              WiFi data        01 02 00009000 00006000
I (75) boot:  1 phy_init         RF data          01 01 0000f000 00001000
I (82) boot:  2 factory          factory app      00 00 00010000 00100000
I (90) boot: End of partition table
I (94) boot_comm: chip revision: 1, min. application chip revision: 0
I (101) esp_image: segment 0: paddr=00010020 vaddr=3f400020 size=12bf4h ( 76788) map
I (137) esp_image: segment 1: paddr=00022c1c vaddr=3ffb0000 size=02420h (  9248) load
I (141) esp_image: segment 2: paddr=00025044 vaddr=40080000 size=0afd4h ( 45012) load
I (161) esp_image: segment 3: paddr=00030020 vaddr=400d0020 size=33148h (209224) map
I (237) esp_image: segment 4: paddr=00063170 vaddr=4008afd4 size=00550h (  1360) load
I (238) esp_image: segment 5: paddr=000636c8 vaddr=50000000 size=00010h (    16) load
I (249) boot: Loaded app from partition at offset 0x10000
I (249) boot: Disabling RNG early entropy source...
I (266) cpu_start: Pro cpu up.
I (266) cpu_start: Starting app cpu, entry point is 0x40081098
0x40081098: call_start_cpu1 at /mnt/c/SysGCC/esp32/esp-idf/v4.4.2/components/esp_system/port/cpu_start.c:160

I (0) cpu_start: App cpu up.
I (280) cpu_start: Pro cpu start user code
I (280) cpu_start: cpu freq: 240000000
I (280) cpu_start: Application information:
I (285) cpu_start: Project name:     wolfssl_benchmark
I (291) cpu_start: App version:      v5.5.3-stable-108-gbd7b442df-di
I (298) cpu_start: Compile time:     Nov 17 2022 14:10:03
I (304) cpu_start: ELF file SHA256:  fbb520f5bbf963a0...
I (310) cpu_start: ESP-IDF:          v4.4.2-dirty
I (316) heap_init: Initializing. RAM available for dynamic allocation:
I (323) heap_init: At 3FFAE6E0 len 00001920 (6 KiB): DRAM
I (329) heap_init: At 3FFB3DE8 len 0002C218 (176 KiB): DRAM
I (335) heap_init: At 3FFE0440 len 00003AE0 (14 KiB): D/IRAM
I (341) heap_init: At 3FFE4350 len 0001BCB0 (111 KiB): D/IRAM
I (348) heap_init: At 4008B524 len 00014ADC (82 KiB): IRAM
I (355) spi_flash: detected chip: generic
I (359) spi_flash: flash io: dio
W (362) spi_flash: Detected size(4096k) larger than the size in the binary image header(2048k). Using the size in the binary image header.
I (377) cpu_start: Starting scheduler on PRO CPU.
I (0) cpu_start: Starting scheduler on APP CPU.
I (391) wolfssl_benchmark: app_main CONFIG_BENCH_ARGV = -lng 0
I (397) wolfssl_benchmark: construct_argv arg:-lng 0

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 wolfSSL version 5.5.3
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
wolfCrypt Benchmark (block bytes 1024, min 1.0 sec each)
RNG                          1 MiB took 1.017 seconds,    1.320 MiB/s
AES-128-CBC-enc              6 MiB took 1.002 seconds,    5.726 MiB/s
AES-128-CBC-dec              5 MiB took 1.000 seconds,    5.347 MiB/s
AES-192-CBC-enc              6 MiB took 1.004 seconds,    5.714 MiB/s
AES-192-CBC-dec              5 MiB took 1.001 seconds,    5.341 MiB/s
AES-256-CBC-enc              6 MiB took 1.000 seconds,    5.713 MiB/s
AES-256-CBC-dec              5 MiB took 1.002 seconds,    5.336 MiB/s
AES-128-GCM-enc            300 KiB took 1.004 seconds,  298.805 KiB/s
AES-128-GCM-dec            300 KiB took 1.004 seconds,  298.805 KiB/s
AES-192-GCM-enc            300 KiB took 1.007 seconds,  297.915 KiB/s
AES-192-GCM-dec            300 KiB took 1.008 seconds,  297.619 KiB/s
AES-256-GCM-enc            300 KiB took 1.011 seconds,  296.736 KiB/s
AES-256-GCM-dec            300 KiB took 1.011 seconds,  296.736 KiB/s
GMAC Default               403 KiB took 1.002 seconds,  402.196 KiB/s
3DES                       450 KiB took 1.028 seconds,  437.743 KiB/s
MD5                         14 MiB took 1.001 seconds,   13.756 MiB/s
SHA                         14 MiB took 1.001 seconds,   14.463 MiB/s
SHA-256                     14 MiB took 1.000 seconds,   14.233 MiB/s
SHA-512                     17 MiB took 1.000 seconds,   16.626 MiB/s
HMAC-MD5                    14 MiB took 1.000 seconds,   13.599 MiB/s
HMAC-SHA                    14 MiB took 1.000 seconds,   13.989 MiB/s
HMAC-SHA256                 14 MiB took 1.000 seconds,   13.940 MiB/s
HMAC-SHA512                 16 MiB took 1.000 seconds,   16.064 MiB/s
PBKDF2                     640 bytes took 1.009 seconds,  634.291 bytes/s
RSA     2048   public        52 ops took 1.022 sec, avg 19.654 ms, 50.881 ops/sec
RSA     2048  private         4 ops took 1.056 sec, avg 264.000 ms, 3.788 ops/sec
ECC   [      SECP256R1]   256  key gen         4 ops took 1.216 sec, avg 304.000 ms, 3.289 ops/sec
ECDHE [      SECP256R1]   256    agree         4 ops took 1.215 sec, avg 303.750 ms, 3.292 ops/sec
ECDSA [      SECP256R1]   256     sign         4 ops took 1.226 sec, avg 306.500 ms, 3.263 ops/sec
ECDSA [      SECP256R1]   256   verify         2 ops took 1.172 sec, avg 586.000 ms, 1.706 ops/sec
CURVE  25519  key gen         3 ops took 1.279 sec, avg 426.333 ms, 2.346 ops/sec
CURVE  25519    agree         4 ops took 1.701 sec, avg 425.250 ms, 2.352 ops/sec
ED     25519  key gen        46 ops took 1.008 sec, avg 21.913 ms, 45.635 ops/sec
ED     25519     sign        42 ops took 1.038 sec, avg 24.714 ms, 40.462 ops/sec
ED     25519   verify        26 ops took 1.009 sec, avg 38.808 ms, 25.768 ops/sec
Benchmark complete
```

## Known Issues and Common Issues

### Permission denied

Delete project directory `build`, `.visualgdb` and `.vs` directories. Ensure no other build
process is using the same files in Windows, WSL, Visual Studio, VSCode, etc.

Example message:

```
-- Building ESP-IDF components for target esp32
CMake Error at /mnt/c/SysGCC/esp32/esp-idf/v4.4.2/tools/cmake/component.cmake:131 (file):
  file failed to open for writing (Permission denied):

    /mnt/c/workspace-pr/wolfssl/IDE/Espressif/ESP-IDF/examples/wolfssl_test/build/bootloader/component_properties.temp.cmake
```


### user_settings.h: No such file or directory

Ensure wolfSSL is installed in the ESP-IDF or local project `components` directory.

Example message:

```
 esp-idf/main/CMakeFiles/__idf_main.dir/main.c.obj   -c ../main/main.c
../main/main.c:27:10: fatal error: user_settings.h: No such file or directory
 #include <user_settings.h>
          ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
compilation terminated.
```

A 'clean` may be needed after freshly installing a new component:

```
idf.py clean build  flash -p /dev/ttyS7 -b 115200 monitor
```

See the README.md file in the upper level 'examples' directory for [more information about examples](../README.md).

Commit message:

update wolfssl: add new files
git-svn-id: svn://svn.dd-wrt.com/DD-WRT@57462 52c4871e-980c-0410-b1e0-e73912ce01f8

src/router/wolfssl/IDE/Espressif/ESP-IDF/examples/wolfssl_benchmark/README.md, after:

# wolfSSL Benchmark Example

This ESP32 example uses the [wolfSSL wolfcrypt Benchmark Application](https://github.com/wolfSSL/wolfssl/tree/master/wolfcrypt/benchmark).

For general information on [wolfSSL examples for Espressif](../README.md), see the
[README](https://github.com/wolfSSL/wolfssl/blob/master/IDE/Espressif/ESP-IDF/README.md) file.

## Espressif ESP Component Registry

See the wolfSSL namespace at [components.espressif.com](https://components.espressif.com/components?q=wolfssl)


## Windows COM Port

All of these examples use COM20 on Windows. The DOS `change port` command can be use to assign any
other local port to `COM20` as needed:

```
change port com20=com23
```

## Bulk Testing

If you have a test jig with multiple ESP32 devices and you'd like to run this wolfcrypt benchmark on all of them, check out
the `testAll.sh` and `testMonitor.sh` scripts in the [../wolfssl_test](../wolfssl_test/README.md) directory. Copy those
bash script files to this project. See the `esp32[NN]_PORT` and `esp32[NN]_PUTTY` settings in `testMonitor.sh` that will
be machine-specific.

## VisualGDB

Open the VisualGDB Visual Studio Project file in the VisualGDB directory and click the "Start" button.
No wolfSSL setup is needed. You may need to adjust your specific COM port. The default is `COM20`.

Include in the respective project `./VisualGDB` directory are [VisualGDB](https://visualgdb.com/) project files.
Individual project files are included for convenience to new users,
as there are [difficulties switching between ESP-IDF Versions or Chipsets](https://sysprogs.com/w/forums/topic/difficulties-switching-espressif-esp-idf-version-or-chipset/)
using the VisualGDB extension.

The naming convention for project files is: `[project name]_IDF_[Version]_[chipset].vgdbproj`. The solution files (filename[.sln]) often will contain shortcuts to commonly used source and configuration files used by the respective project.


-------- |------------- |------------- |
ChipSet  | ESP-IDF v4.4 | ESP-IDF v5.1 |
-------- |------------- |------------- |
ESP32    |      x       |              |
ESP32-S2 |              |              |
ESP32-S3 |      x       |      x       |
ESP32-C3 |      x       |      x       |
ESP32-C6 |              |              |


The default directories are:

- `C:\SysGCC` - The root directory install of VisualGDB
- `C:\SysGCC\esp32` - The default for ESP-IDF v5.x
- `C:\SysGCC\esp32-8.4` - Many need to manually select this name for ESP-IDF v4.x install
- `C:\SysGCC\esp8266`- The default for ESP8266

Windows ports assigned with the `change port` command may not appear in the VisualGDB dropdowns but can still
be used when manually typed.
See the [feature request](https://sysprogs.com/w/forums/topic/feature-request-show-windows-change-port-results-in-com-port-dropdown-lists/).

## ESP-IDF Commandline

1. `idf.py menuconfig` to configure the program.  
    1-1. Example Configuration ->

    BENCH_ARG : argument that you want to use. Default is "-lng 0"  
    The list of argument can be find in help.

When you want to run the benchmark program

1. `idf.py -p <PORT> flash` to compile and load the firmware
2. `idf.py monitor` to see the message

See the README.md file in the upper level 'examples' directory for more information about examples.

## Performance

Reminder than when building on WSL in `/mnt/c` there will be a noticeable performance degradation at compile time. Using `~/` will be faster at the cost of shared filesystems.

Example build on WSL:

```
Optionally update toolchain

cd /mnt/c/SysGCC/esp32/esp-idf/master
git fetch
git pull
git submodule update --init --recursive

cd /mnt/c/workspace/wolfssl/IDE/Espressif/ESP-IDF/examples/wolfssl_benchmark

# Pick ESP-IDF install directory, this one for v5.1 in VisualGDB

WRK_IDF_PATH=/mnt/c/SysGCC/esp32/esp-idf/v5.1
WRK_IDF_PATH=/mnt/c/SysGCC/esp32-8.4/esp-idf/v4.4.1
WRK_IDF_PATH=~/esp/esp-idf

. $WRK_IDF_PATH/export.sh

# Set target SoC
idf.py set-target esp32c3

# Optionally erase

# Build and flash
idf.py build flash -p /dev/ttyS20 -b 115200 monitor
```

## Example Output

Note the default wolfSSL `user_settings.h` is configured by default to be the most 
compatible across the widest ranges of targets. Contact wolfSSL at support@wolfssl.com
for help in optimizing for your particular application, or see the 
[docs](https://www.wolfssl.com/documentation/manuals/wolfssl/index.html).

Compiled and flashed with `idf.py build  flash -p /dev/ttyS7 -b 115200 monitor`:

```
--- idf_monitor on /dev/ttyS7 115200 ---
--- Quit: Ctrl+] | Menu: Ctrl+T | Help: Ctrl+T followed by Ctrl+H ---
 (377) cpu_start: Starting scheduler ets Jun  8 2016 00:22:57

rst:0x1 (POWERON_RESET),boot:0x13 (SPI_FAST_FLASH_BOOT)
configsip: 0, SPIWP:0xee
clk_drv:0x00,q_drv:0x00,d_drv:0x00,cs0_drv:0x00,hd_drv:0x00,wp_drv:0x00
mode:DIO, clock div:2
load:0x3fff0030,len:6664
load:0x40078000,len:14848
load:0x40080400,len:3792
0x40080400: _init at ??:?

entry 0x40080694
I (27) boot: ESP-IDF v4.4.2-dirty 2nd stage bootloader
I (27) boot: compile time 13:41:41
I (27) boot: chip revision: 1
I (30) boot_comm: chip revision: 1, min. bootloader chip revision: 0
I (37) boot.esp32: SPI Speed      : 40MHz
I (42) boot.esp32: SPI Mode       : DIO
I (46) boot.esp32: SPI Flash Size : 2MB
I (51) boot: Enabling RNG early entropy source...
I (56) boot: Partition Table:
I (60) boot: ## Label            Usage          Type ST Offset   Length
I (67) boot:  0 nvs              WiFi data        01 02 00009000 00006000
I (75) boot:  1 phy_init         RF data          01 01 0000f000 00001000
I (82) boot:  2 factory          factory app      00 00 00010000 00100000
I (90) boot: End of partition table
I (94) boot_comm: chip revision: 1, min. application chip revision: 0
I (101) esp_image: segment 0: paddr=00010020 vaddr=3f400020 size=12bf4h ( 76788) map
I (137) esp_image: segment 1: paddr=00022c1c vaddr=3ffb0000 size=02420h (  9248) load
I (141) esp_image: segment 2: paddr=00025044 vaddr=40080000 size=0afd4h ( 45012) load
I (161) esp_image: segment 3: paddr=00030020 vaddr=400d0020 size=33148h (209224) map
I (237) esp_image: segment 4: paddr=00063170 vaddr=4008afd4 size=00550h (  1360) load
I (238) esp_image: segment 5: paddr=000636c8 vaddr=50000000 size=00010h (    16) load
I (249) boot: Loaded app from partition at offset 0x10000
I (249) boot: Disabling RNG early entropy source...
I (266) cpu_start: Pro cpu up.
I (266) cpu_start: Starting app cpu, entry point is 0x40081098
0x40081098: call_start_cpu1 at /mnt/c/SysGCC/esp32/esp-idf/v4.4.2/components/esp_system/port/cpu_start.c:160

I (0) cpu_start: App cpu up.
I (280) cpu_start: Pro cpu start user code
I (280) cpu_start: cpu freq: 240000000
I (280) cpu_start: Application information:
I (285) cpu_start: Project name:     wolfssl_benchmark
I (291) cpu_start: App version:      v5.5.3-stable-108-gbd7b442df-di
I (298) cpu_start: Compile time:     Nov 17 2022 14:10:03
I (304) cpu_start: ELF file SHA256:  fbb520f5bbf963a0...
I (310) cpu_start: ESP-IDF:          v4.4.2-dirty
I (316) heap_init: Initializing. RAM available for dynamic allocation:
I (323) heap_init: At 3FFAE6E0 len 00001920 (6 KiB): DRAM
I (329) heap_init: At 3FFB3DE8 len 0002C218 (176 KiB): DRAM
I (335) heap_init: At 3FFE0440 len 00003AE0 (14 KiB): D/IRAM
I (341) heap_init: At 3FFE4350 len 0001BCB0 (111 KiB): D/IRAM
I (348) heap_init: At 4008B524 len 00014ADC (82 KiB): IRAM
I (355) spi_flash: detected chip: generic
I (359) spi_flash: flash io: dio
W (362) spi_flash: Detected size(4096k) larger than the size in the binary image header(2048k). Using the size in the binary image header.
I (377) cpu_start: Starting scheduler on PRO CPU.
I (0) cpu_start: Starting scheduler on APP CPU.
I (391) wolfssl_benchmark: app_main CONFIG_BENCH_ARGV = -lng 0
I (397) wolfssl_benchmark: construct_argv arg:-lng 0

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 wolfSSL version 5.5.3
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
wolfCrypt Benchmark (block bytes 1024, min 1.0 sec each)
RNG                          1 MiB took 1.017 seconds,    1.320 MiB/s
AES-128-CBC-enc              6 MiB took 1.002 seconds,    5.726 MiB/s
AES-128-CBC-dec              5 MiB took 1.000 seconds,    5.347 MiB/s
AES-192-CBC-enc              6 MiB took 1.004 seconds,    5.714 MiB/s
AES-192-CBC-dec              5 MiB took 1.001 seconds,    5.341 MiB/s
AES-256-CBC-enc              6 MiB took 1.000 seconds,    5.713 MiB/s
AES-256-CBC-dec              5 MiB took 1.002 seconds,    5.336 MiB/s
AES-128-GCM-enc            300 KiB took 1.004 seconds,  298.805 KiB/s
AES-128-GCM-dec            300 KiB took 1.004 seconds,  298.805 KiB/s
AES-192-GCM-enc            300 KiB took 1.007 seconds,  297.915 KiB/s
AES-192-GCM-dec            300 KiB took 1.008 seconds,  297.619 KiB/s
AES-256-GCM-enc            300 KiB took 1.011 seconds,  296.736 KiB/s
AES-256-GCM-dec            300 KiB took 1.011 seconds,  296.736 KiB/s
GMAC Default               403 KiB took 1.002 seconds,  402.196 KiB/s
3DES                       450 KiB took 1.028 seconds,  437.743 KiB/s
MD5                         14 MiB took 1.001 seconds,   13.756 MiB/s
SHA                         14 MiB took 1.001 seconds,   14.463 MiB/s
SHA-256                     14 MiB took 1.000 seconds,   14.233 MiB/s
SHA-512                     17 MiB took 1.000 seconds,   16.626 MiB/s
HMAC-MD5                    14 MiB took 1.000 seconds,   13.599 MiB/s
HMAC-SHA                    14 MiB took 1.000 seconds,   13.989 MiB/s
HMAC-SHA256                 14 MiB took 1.000 seconds,   13.940 MiB/s
HMAC-SHA512                 16 MiB took 1.000 seconds,   16.064 MiB/s
PBKDF2                     640 bytes took 1.009 seconds,  634.291 bytes/s
RSA     2048   public        52 ops took 1.022 sec, avg 19.654 ms, 50.881 ops/sec
RSA     2048  private         4 ops took 1.056 sec, avg 264.000 ms, 3.788 ops/sec
ECC   [      SECP256R1]   256  key gen         4 ops took 1.216 sec, avg 304.000 ms, 3.289 ops/sec
ECDHE [      SECP256R1]   256    agree         4 ops took 1.215 sec, avg 303.750 ms, 3.292 ops/sec
ECDSA [      SECP256R1]   256     sign         4 ops took 1.226 sec, avg 306.500 ms, 3.263 ops/sec
ECDSA [      SECP256R1]   256   verify         2 ops took 1.172 sec, avg 586.000 ms, 1.706 ops/sec
CURVE  25519  key gen         3 ops took 1.279 sec, avg 426.333 ms, 2.346 ops/sec
CURVE  25519    agree         4 ops took 1.701 sec, avg 425.250 ms, 2.352 ops/sec
ED     25519  key gen        46 ops took 1.008 sec, avg 21.913 ms, 45.635 ops/sec
ED     25519     sign        42 ops took 1.038 sec, avg 24.714 ms, 40.462 ops/sec
ED     25519   verify        26 ops took 1.009 sec, avg 38.808 ms, 25.768 ops/sec
Benchmark complete
```

## Known Issues and Common Issues

### Permission denied

Delete project directory `build`, `.visualgdb` and `.vs` directories. Ensure no other build
process is using the same files in Windows, WSL, Visual Studio, VSCode, etc.

Example message:

```
-- Building ESP-IDF components for target esp32
CMake Error at /mnt/c/SysGCC/esp32/esp-idf/v4.4.2/tools/cmake/component.cmake:131 (file):
  file failed to open for writing (Permission denied):

    /mnt/c/workspace-pr/wolfssl/IDE/Espressif/ESP-IDF/examples/wolfssl_test/build/bootloader/component_properties.temp.cmake
```


### user_settings.h: No such file or directory

Ensure wolfSSL is installed in the ESP-IDF or local project `components` directory.

Example message:

```
 esp-idf/main/CMakeFiles/__idf_main.dir/main.c.obj   -c ../main/main.c
../main/main.c:27:10: fatal error: user_settings.h: No such file or directory
 #include <user_settings.h>
          ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
compilation terminated.
```

A 'clean` may be needed after freshly installing a new component:

```
idf.py clean build  flash -p /dev/ttyS7 -b 115200 monitor
```

See the README.md file in the upper level 'examples' directory for [more information about examples](../README.md).
