.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.\" Copyright 2004, by Shaul Karl. You may modify and distribute 
.\" this document for any purpose as long as this copyright notice
.\" remains intact.
.\"

.TH inadyn-mt 8 "September, 2009" "Linux applications" "System management commands"
.SH NAME
inadyn-mt \- a client for open DNS servers.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B inadyn-mt
[\-h | \-\-help] 
[\-u | \-\-username 
.I username] 
[\-p | \-\- password 
.I password] 
[\-a | \-\-alias 
.I alias[,hash] [dual | coupled | ip4 | ip6 | auto]]
[\-\-input_file 
.I path/name] 
[\-\-ip_server_name
.I server[:port] url]
[\-\-dyndns_server_name
.I server[:port]]
[\-\-dyndns_server_url
.I url]
[\-\-dyndns_system
.I service] 
[\-\-proxy_server[:port]
.I proxy[:port]] 
[\-\-update_period
.I ms] 
[\-\-update_period_sec
.I sec] 
[\-\-forced_update_period
.I sec] 
[\-\-log_file
.I path/name] 
[\-\-background] 
[\-\-verbose
.I level] 
[\-\-iterations
.I iterations] 
[\-\-syslog]
[\-\-change_persona 
.I uid[:gid]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B inadyn-mt
is a client for `open' name servers. That is, it allows the user's
machine to have an Internet recognized name by transferring some
control over a name server not managed by the user. Some of the 
services that are offered by those open name servers are free of 
charge, and work even when the client machine does not have a static
IP.  Supports both IPv4, and IPv6 addresses.

Supported name servers are:
.TP
http://www.dyndns.org
.TP
http://freedns.afraid.org,
.TP
http://www.zoneedit.com,
.TP
http://www.no-ip.com,
.TP
http://www.easydns.com,
.TP
http://www.3322.org,
.TP
http://www.sitelutions.com,
.TP
http://www.tzo.com,
.TP
http://www.dnsomatic.com,
.TP
http://www.tunnelbroker.net,
.TP
http://www.dynsip.org
.TP
http://www.dhis.org
.TP
http://www.majimoto.net
.TP
http://www.zerigo.com

.PP
Its basic operation is to periodically check whether the actual IP
of the client machine is the same one that is recorded in the name
server, and update the name server records when there is a mismatch.

For IPv6 addresses, see below, alias, and ip_server_name options.

Also, network status can be checked at a user specified interval,
and audible alerts issued in event of network status down.

.SS OPTIONS
.TP
.I "\-h, \-\-help"
Print a summary of the options to
.B inadyn-mt
and exit.
.TP
.I "\-u, \-\-username"
The username, if applicable. This might be referred to as hash.
.TP
.I "\-p, \-\-password"
The password, if applicable.
.TP
.I "\-a, \-\-alias[,hash] [dual | coupled | ip4 | ip6 | auto]"
A host name alias, optional comma delimited hash, and optional ip version, default auto. This option
can appear multiple times, for each domain that has the same IP.

For alias ip type, it may often suffice to use either dual, for dual stack clients updating a given alias to both 
IPv4, and IPv6 addresses, or ip4 when the client is dual stack and requires at least one IPv4 only address update.  
Leaving ip type up to the ip server (see ip_server_name option, below) may be also, in many instances, sufficient 
(auto alias ip type, which is the default).

Use ip type coupled instead of dual in cases where ip server update specification requires dual stack updates in a single
update request, i.e., both ip address types may be sent in a comma delimited list fashion.

.TP
.I \-\-input_file
The file name that contains inadyn-mt command options exactly as specified in
the command line syntax (adds to those already present in the cmd
line). The default configuration file name is '/etc/inadyn.conf'. It is
looked at automatically if
.B inadyn-mt
is called without any command line options. The format is as expected
for a **NIX config   the hash character is used to comment entire
lines. Spaces are ingored. The long options may be specified without 
\-\- if placed at the beginning of the line.
.TP
.I \-\-ip_server_name[:port] url
The client IP is detected by calling 'url' from this 'ip_server_name:port'.

Choice of ip server name parameter option can determine what type of address is updated.
To update an IPv6 address, simply choose an ip server that supports IPv6, such as, ip6.me /, 
myip.dk /, dhis.org /, among others.  And, of course, dynamic dns server should be
set to one that supports IPv6.
.TP
.I \-\-dyndns_server_name[:port]
The server that receives the update DNS requests. When no proxy is specified it is sufficient to set the
dyndns_system so that the default servers will be taken. The option is useful for generic DynDNS services that support HTTP update.
.TP
.I \-\-dyndns_server_url name
The update path inside the DynDNS server. 
.TP
.I \-\-dyndns_system
An optional DNS service. For 

http://www.dyndns.org

the acceptable services are one of dyndns@dyndns.org, statdns@dyndns.org
or custom@dyndns.org. 

There is only one acceptable service for http://freedns.afraid.org, which is default@freedns.afraid.org. 

Other services are: default@zoneedit.com, default@no-ip.com, default@easydns.com, dyndns@3322.org, default@sitelutions.com, default@dnsomatic.com, ipv6tb@he.net, default@tzo.com, default@dynsip.org, default@dhis.org, default@majimoto.net, default@zerigo.com, custom@http_svr_basic_auth. The default service is dyndns@dyndns.org, which is believed to be used by most users, at least initially.
.TP
.I \-\-proxy_server[:port]
An http proxy server name and port. The default is none.
.TP
.I \-\-update_period
How often the IP is checked. This value denotes millisecond (There are
1000 milliseconds in one second). 30000..864000000.  Default is about 10 min.
maximum is 10 days.
.TP
.I \-\-update_period_sec
How often the IP is checked. Here the value denotes seconds. 30..864000.  The default is about 10 min.
The maximum value is 10 days.
.TP
.I \-\-forced_update_period
How often the IP should be updated even if it is not changed. The time should be given in seconds.
30 sec..30 days.  Default, 30 days.
.TP
.I \-\-forced_update_adjust
Fine timer control.  Slow, or speed timer between -4..5.  Default, 0.
.TP
.I \-\-log_file
The name, including the full path, of a log file.
.TP
.I \-\-cache_dir
Directory to which ip, and time update files are written.  Defaults to /tmp on **NIX systems.
.TP
.I \-\-background
run in background. Output is sent to the UNIX syslog facilities or to a log file, if one was specified.
.TP
.I \-\-verbose
Set the debug level, which is an integer between 0 to 5.
.TP
.I \-\-iterations
Set the number of DNS updates. The default is 0, which means infinity.
.TP
.I \-\-syslog
Explicitly sending the output to a syslog like file, such as /var/log/messages.
.TP
.I \-\-change_persona uid[:gid]
After init changes user ID and group ID to the provided ones. This allows dropping unneeded [root] privileges after startup.
.TP
.I \-\-retries
Network comm retry attempts.  0 to 100, default 0.
.TP
.I \-\-retry_interval
Network comm miliseconds retry interval, 0 to 30,000, default 1,000.
.TP
.I \-\-retry_pending
Retry ip update even after network comm retries exhausted,  default on.
.TP
.I \-\-retry_pending_interval
Network comm seconds update retry interval, after retries exhausted.  5 to 3600, default 300.
.TP
.I \-\-lang_file
Language file path, and file name, defaults to either ../inadyn-mt/lang/en.lng, or etc/inadyn-mt/en.lng.  No parameter option gives hard coded defaults.
.TP
.I \-\-online_check_url
srv_name[:port] local_url - URL to reach to confirm online status.
.TP
.I \-\-status_interval
Seconds [30..864000] interval at which to check online status, defaults to 600.
.TP
.I \-\-alert_retries
Network retries before audible network status alerts. [0..100], default 0.
.TP
.I \-\-status_offline_interval
Seconds [0..864000] interval at which to check online status, after offline detected, defaults to 15.
.TP
.I \-\-audible
Audible network status alerts toggle (log output only), default off.
.TP
.I \-\-wave_file
Audible network status alerts wave file path, and file name. defaults to either ../inadyn-mt/extra/wav/alarm.wav, or etc/inadyn-mt/extra/wav/alarm.wav.  [wave loops: 0..100; -1 for infinite] same as wave_loops below -- optional number of times per wave play call to repeat wave file play, default 0.
.TP
.I \-\-wave_loops
Same as wave_file parameter optional parameter -- 0..100; -1 for infinite number of times per wave play call to play wave file.
.TP
.I \-\-wave_buff
Wave file output buffer size control -- integer or float multiple of wave file bytes per sec. [.25..10], default .25.
.TP
.I \-\-wave_gain
gain (amplitude adjust) at which to play audible alert (beware clipping), integer or float. [-10..10], default 10 (0db, no attenuation).
.TP
.I \-\-alert_interval
Time in miliseconds between consecutive audible network status alerts, [0..3600000], default 0.
.SH "TYPICAL USAGE"
.SS

http://www.dyndns.org

.TP
.B inadyn-mt
 \-u username \-p password \-a my.registered.name
.TP
.B inadyn-mt
\-\-username test \-\-password test \-\-update_period 60000 
\-\-alias test.homeip.net \-\-alias my.second.domain
.TP
.B inadyn-mt
\-\-background \-u test \-p test \-\-update_period 60000 
\-\-alias inarcis.homeip.net \-\-alias my.second.domain 
\-\-log_file inadyn-mt.log
.SS

http://freedns.afraid.org

.TP
.B inadyn-mt
\-\-dyndns_system default@freedns.afraid.org \-a my.registrated.name,hash_from_freedns
.TP
.B inadyn-mt
\-\-update_period 60000 \-\-alias test.homeip.net,hash_for_host1 
\-a my.second.domain,hash2 \-\-dyndns_system default@freedns.afraid.org
.PP
The 'hash' should be extracted from the grab url batch file that can be
downloaded from the site. A single hashed (base64 encoded) string is 
preferred upon a username and password pair, apparently to reduce the 
computational resources that is required on their side. Unfortunately
the hash can not be computed by inadyn-mt because it requires the index to
the username record in the freedns database, which is not known. The
simplest solution seems to be a copy&paste action from the grab url batch
file offered on their website. When the batch file looks is like

graburl http://freedns.afraid.org/dynamic/update.php?YUGIUGSEIUFGOUIHEOIFEOIHJFEIO=

the hash string, which is what the user should copy and paste, is the 
string that begins right after the '?' character and ends with the end
of line. This string shell be used as the username in inadyn-mt command.
When the user has several names then each name should be followed with
that name hash string.
.SH OUTPUT
.B
inadyn-mt
prints a message when the IP is updated.  When the connection goes down it could be that 
.B inadyn-mt 
will print some error messages. Those are harmless and should be 
followed by 'OK' messages after the connection is back up.

.SH Signals
Any of the SIG_HUP, SIG_INT, SIG_QUIT will cause inadyn-mt to terminate gracefully.
SIG_USR1 will cause inadyn-mt to update ip, if changed.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SS "Other manual pages"
The syntax of the optional configuration file is given by
.BR inadyn-mt.conf(5).
.SS "Internet resources"
.B inadyn:

http://www.inatech.eu/inadyn/


.B inadyn-advanced:

http://sourceforge.net/projects/inadyn-advanced/


.B inadyn-mt:

http://sourceforge.net/projects/inadyn-mt/


.SH AUTHOR
.B inadyn
was written by Narcis Ilisei, <inarcis2002@hotpop.com>;
inadyn-advanced, Steve Horbachuk;
inadyn-mt unicode, other augmentations, Bryan Hoover <bhoover@wecs.com>

This manual page was written by Shaul Karl, <shaul@debian.org>, for the
.B Debian GNU/Linux
system, based on the readme.html file that is found in the source.



