.\" Pound - the reverse-proxy load-balancer
.\" Copyright (C) 2023-2024 Sergey Poznyakoff
.\"
.\" Pound is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" Pound is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with pound.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.TH POUNDCTL.TMPL 5 "February 7, 2023" "pound" "File Formats Manual"
.SH NAME
poundctl.tmpl \- templates for poundctl.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The syntax of \fBpoundctl\fR templates is modelled after and mostly
conforming to the specifications of the golang template module
(https://pkg.go.dev/text/template).
.PP
Templates are executed by applying them to a JSON object.  Annotations
in a template refer to attributes of the object to control execution
and derive values to be displayed.  Execution of the template walks
the structure and sets the cursor, represented by a period (called
\fIdot\fR), to the value at the current location in the object as
execution proceeds.
.PP
The input text for a template is as ASCII text is arbitrary format.
.I Actions
-- data evaluations or control structures -- are delimited by
.B {{
and
.BR }} ;
all text outside actions is copied to the output verbatim.
.PP
To aid in formatting template source code, if
.B {{
is followed immediately by a minus sign
and white space, all trailing white space is trimmed from the
immediately preceding text.  Similarly, if
.B }}
is preceded by white space and a minus sign, all leading white space
is trimmed from the immediately following text.  Notice that the
presence of the whitespace in these trim markers is mandatory:
"{{- 3}}" trims the immediately preceding text and outputs "3", while
"{{-3}}" parses as an action containing the number -3.
.SS Actions
Here is the list of actions.
.I Arguments
and
.I pipelines
are evaluations of data, defined in detail in the corresponding sections
that follow.
.TP
.B {{ }}
Empty action is discarded.  It may be useful to trim the preceding or
following whitespace, as in
.B "{{- -}}" .
.TP
.B {{/* a comment */}}
Comments are discarded.  They may span multiple lines of text.
Comments do not nest and must start immediately after the opening
delimiter (with optional dash and whitespace in between).  A comment
may be followed by any action described below.
.IP
Comments may be used to control trailing and leading whitespace as
well:
.IP
.EX
.BR "{{- a comment trimming the surrounding whitespace -}}"
.EE
.TP
.BI {{ pipeline }}
.I Pipeline
is evaluated, and the default textual representation of its
value is copied to the output.
.TP
.BI "{{if " pipeline }} " T1 " {{end}}
If the value of the \fIpipeline\fR is empty, no output is generated;
otherwise, \fIT1\fR is executed.  The empty values are \fBnull\fR,
\fBfalse\fR, numeric \fB0\fR, \fBnull\fR, empty string (\fB""\fR),
array (\fB[]\fR), or object (\fB{}\fR).	 Dot is unaffected.
.TP
.BI "{{if " pipeline }} " T1 " {{else}} " T0 " {{end}}
If the value of the pipeline is empty, \fIT0\fR is executed;
otherwise, \fIT1\fR is executed. Dot is unaffected.
.TP
.BI "{{if " pipeline }} " T1 " "{{else if " pipeline }} " T2 " {{else}} " T0 " {{end}}
A shortcut to simplify writing the if-else chains.  Equivalent to
(newlines added for readability):
.IP
.EX
{{if pipeline }}
  T1
{{else -}}
 {{if pipeline }}
   T2
 {{else}}
   T0
 {{end}}
{{end}}
.EE
.TP
.BI "{{range " pipeline }} " T1 " {{end}}
The value of
.I pipeline
must be an object or array.  If it is of length zero, nothing is
output.  Otherwise, dot is set to the successive elements of the array
or object and
.I T1
is executed.  For objects, the elements will be	visited in sorted key
order.
.TP
.BI "{{range " pipeline }} " T1 " {{else}} " T0 " {{end}}
Same as above, except that if the value of the
.I pipeline
is of length zero,
.I T0
is executed with dot unaffected.
.IP
Within the
.B {{range}}
action, the following two keywords may appear:
.TP
.B {{break}}
The innermost
.BI "{{range " pipeline }}
loop is ended early, stopping the current iteration and bypassing all
remaining iterations.
.TP
.B {{continue}}
The current iteration of the innermost
.BI "{{range " pipeline }}
loop is stopped, and the loop starts the next iteration.
.TP
.BI "{{define \(dq" name "\(dq}} " text " {{end}}"
The \fItext\fR is collected and stored for the further use as template
with the given \fIname\fR.  It can be invoked using the
\fB{{template}}\fR action (see below).
.TP
.BI "{{template \(dq" name "\(dq}}"
The template with the specified \fIname\fR (see the \fB{{define}}
above) is executed with dot set to \fBnull\fR.
.TP
.BI "{{template \(dq" name "\(dq " value }}
The template with the specified \fIname\fR (see the \fB{{define}}
above) is executed with dot set to \fIvalue\fR.
.TP
.BI "{{block \(dq" name "\(dq " pipeline }} " T1 " {{end}}
A block is shorthand for defining a template
.IP
.EX
{{define "name"}} T1 {{end}}
.EE
.IP
and then executing it in place
.IP
.EX
{{template "name" pipeline}}
.EE
.TP
.BI "{{with " pipeline }} " T1 " {{end}}
If the value of the \fIpipeline\fR is empty, no output is generated;
otherwise, dot is set to the value of the \fIpipeline\fR and \fIT1\fR is
executed.
.TP
.BI "{{with " pipeline }} " T1 " {{else}} " T0 " {{end}}
Same as above, but if the value of the \fIpipeline\fR is empty,
\fIT0\fR is executed with dot unchanged.
.SS Arguments
An \fIargument\fR is a simple value, i.e. any of the following:
.TP
Numeric value (integer or floating point)
.TP
Boolean value: \fBtrue\fR or \fBfalse\fR.
.TP
Quoted string.
.TP
A dot (\fB.\fR)
This represents the cursor value.
.TP
Attribute: \fB.\fIAttr\fR
This is the value of the attribute \fIAttr\fR in the current value
(dot).
.IP
Attribute references can be nested, as in
\fB.\fIAttr\fB.\fIXattr\fB.\fIYattr\fR.
.TP
A variable reference: \fB$\fIvar\fR.
Here, \fIvar\fR is the name of the variable defined in the \fBrange\fR
action.  See the subsection \fBVariables\fR, below.
.TP
Function call in parentheses, for grouping.
.SS Pipelines
A \fIpipeline\fR is a series of one or more \fIcommands\fR delimited
by pipe sign (\fB|\fR).  Each \fIcommand\fR is either an argument or
a \fIfunction call\fR, in form:
.PP
.EX
func arg1 arg2...
.EE
.PP
where \fIfunc\fR is the name of one of the built-in functions
discussed below.
.PP
Pipelines are executed from left to right, with the result of the
previous command implicitly added to the list of argument of each
subsequent command.  For example, the pipeline
.PP
.EX
\&.attr | eq $x
.EE
.PP
is equivalent to
.PP
.EX
eq $x .attr
.EE
.PP
i.e. it calls the built-in function \fBeq\fR with two arguments: the
value of the variable \fBx\fR and attribute \fBattr\fR of the cursor
value.
.PP
The following built-in functions are defined:
.TP
.BI and " A1 A2"
Evaluates to \fItrue\fR if pipelines \fIA1\fR and \fIA2\fR both
evaluate to \fItrue\fR.  Notice, that there is no boolean shortcut
evaluation: both pipelines are evaluated prior to calling \fBand\fR.
.TP
.BI or " A1 A2"
Evaluates to \fItrue\fR if at least one of the pipelines \fIA1\fR and
\fIA2\fR evaluates to \fItrue\fR.  Notice, that there is no boolean shortcut
evaluation: both pipelines are evaluated prior to calling \fBand\fR.
.TP
\fBindex \fIA1 A2...\fR
Returns the result of indexing its first argument by the following
arguments.  Thus, if \fB.\fR is an array, then:
.IP
.EX
index . 5
.EE
.IP
evaluates to its fifth element (\fB.[5]\fR).
.TP
.BI len " A1"
Returns the integer length of its argument.
.TP
.BI not " A1"
Returns \fItrue\fR if its argument evaluates to \fIfalse\fR.
.TP
.BI eq " A1 A2"
Returns \fItrue\fR if both its arguments are equal.  This applies only
if both \fIA1\fR and \fIA2\fR are numeric or if they both are strings.
.TP
.BI ne " A1 A2"
Returns \fItrue\fR if its arguments (both must be numeric or strings)
are not strings.
.TP
.BI lt " A1 A2"
Returns \fItrue\fR if \fIA1\fR is numerically less than \fIA2\fR.
.TP
.BI le " A1 A2"
Returns \fItrue\fR if \fIA1\fR is numerically less than or equal to \fIA2\fR.
.TP
.BI gt " A1 A2"
Returns \fItrue\fR if \fIA1\fR is numerically greater than \fIA2\fR.
.TP
.BI ge " A1 A2"
Returns \fItrue\fR if \fIA1\fR is numerically greater than or equal to \fIA2\fR.
.TP
.BI even " A1"
Returns \fItrue\fR if \fBA1\fR, which must evaluate to an integer
value, is divisible by 2.
.TP
\fBprintf \fIFMT\fR \fIA1\fR...
Implements the
.BR printf (3)
function.  \fIFMT\fR must evaluate to a string.  Rest of arguments is
interpreted according to the conversion specifications in \fIFMT\fR.  The
result is a formatted string.
.IP
In addition to the standard conversion specifications described in
.BR printf (3),
the "%v" specifier is implemented: it formats its argument in the best
way, depending on its actual type.
.TP
.BI typeof " A1"
Evaluates to the type of its argument, one of:
.BR null ,
.BR bool ,
.BR number ,
.BR integer ,
.BR string ,
.BR array ,
.BR object .
.TP
.BI exists " A1 A2"
\fBA1\fR must evaluate to an object and \fBA2\fR to string.  The
function evaluates to \fBtrue\fR if the attribute \fIA2\fR is present
in \fIA1\fR.
.TP
\fBadd \fIA1 A2\fR...
Returns the sum of its arguments.
.TP
\fBsub \fIA1 A2\fR
Returns the difference \fIA1\fR \- \fIA2\fR.
.TP
\fBmul \fIA1 A2\fR
Multiplies \fIA1\fR by \fIA2\fR.
.TP
\fBdiv \fIA1 A2\fR
Divides \fIA1\fR by \fIA2\fR.
.SS Variables
Variables (referred to as \fB$\fIname\fR) can be defined in
\fBrange\fR and \fBwith\fR actions.  For \fBrange\fR, the syntax is:
.PP
.EX
.BI "{{range " $index ", " $element " = " pipeline }} " T1 " {{end}}
.EE
.PP
where \fIindex\fR and \fIelement\fR are arbitrary variable names.
When executing this action, during each iteration \fI$index\fR and
\fI$element\fR are set to the index (attribute name) and value of
each successive element.  Dot remains unaffected.
.PP
For \fBwith\fR, the syntax is:
.PP
.EX
.BI "{{with " $var " = " pipeline }} " T1 " {{end}}
.EE
.PP
\fIPipeline\fR is evaluated, its result is assigned to \fI$var\fR and
the \fIT1\fR block is executed with dot unchanged.
.PP
A variable's scope extends to the \fBend\fR action of the control
structure (\fBwith\fR or \fBrange\fR) in which it is declared.  This
includes any nested statements that may appear in between.
.SH INPUT OBJECT
Depending on the request issued by \fBpoundctl\fR, the invoked template
can receive as its argument (\fIdot\fR) an object of the following
types: full listing, listener, service, or backend.
.PP
Since there is no explicit indication of the object type being passed,
templates normally use heuristics based on the presence or absence of
certain attribute to deduce the object type in question.  The
recommended approach is described in the following pseudo-code
fragment:
.PP
.EX
{{if exists . "listeners" }}
  {{/* This is a full listing, as requested by \fBpoundctl list\fR. */}}
  ...
{{else if exists . "services"}}
  {{/* Single listener, as requested by \fBpoundctl list /\fIL\fR.
       Notice that this attribute is present in the full listing as
       well, so presence of "listeners" should be checked first. */}}
  ...
{{else if exists . "backends"}}
  {{/* Single service, as requested by \fBpoundctl list /\fIL\fB/\fIS\fR. */}}
  ...
{{else}}
  {{/* Backend listing (\fBpoundctl list /\fIL\fB/\fIS\fB/\fIB\fR) */}}
  ...
{{end}}
.EE
.PP
Structures of each object are discussed in subsections that follow.
.SS Full listing
A full listing contains the following attributes:
.TP
.B listeners
An array of \fIlistener\fR objects.  See below for a description.
.TP
.B services
An array of \fIservices\fR objects, representing services defined in
the global scope of the \fBpound\fR configuration file.
.TP
.B pid
PID of the running
.B pound
daemon.
.TP
.B version
.B Pound
version number (string).
.TP
.B workers
Workers statistics.  This is a JSON object with the following
attributes:
.RS
.TP
.B active
Number of active threads.
.TP
.B count
Number of threads currently running.
.TP
.B max
Maximum number of threads.
.TP
.B min
Minimum number of threads.
.TP
.B timeout
Thread idle timeout.
.RE
.TP
.B queue_len
Number of incoming HTTP requests in the queue (integer).
.TP
.B timestamp
Current time on the server, formatted as ISO 8601 date-time with
microsecond precision, e.g.: "2023-01-05T22:43:18.071559".
.SS Listener
A \fIlistener\fR object represents a single HTTP or HTTPS listener in
\fBpound\fR configuration.  It has the following attributes:
.TP
.B address
.BR String .
Address of this listener.  A string formatted as "\fIIP\fB:\fIPORT\fR"
for IPv4 and IPv6 addresses or containing socket file name, for UNIX
sockets.
.TP
.B protocol
.BR String .
Protocol used: either \fBhttp\fR or \fBhttps\fR.
.TP
.B services
Array of \fIservice\fR objects representing services defined in this
listener.  See below for a definition of \fIservice\fR object.
.TP
.B enabled
.BR Boolean .
Whether this listener is enabled or not.
.TP
.B nohttps11
.BR Integer .
Value of the \fBNoHTTPS11\fR configuration statement for this
listener.  One of: 0, 1, 2.
.SS Service
A \fIservice\fR object describes a single service.
.TP
.B name
.BR String .
Symbolic name of this service.
.TP
.B enabled
.BR Boolean .
Whether this service is enabled or not.
.TP
.B tot_pri
.BR Integer .
Sum of priority values of active backends in this service.
.TP
.B abs_pri
.BR Integer .
Sum of priority values of all defined backends in this service.
.TP
.B session_type
.BR String .
Name of the session handling algorithm for this service.  One of:
.BR IP ,
.BR BASIC ,
.BR URL ,
.BR PARM ,
.BR COOKIE ,
.BR HEADER .
.TP
.B sessions
List of active sessions in this service.  Each session is represented
as object with the following attributes:
.RS
.TP
.B key
.BR String .
Session key.
.TP
.B backend
.BR Integer .
Number of the backend assigned to handle requests with this session.
.TP
.B expire
.BR Timestamp .
Expiration time of this session, with microsecond precision.
.RE
.TP
.B backends
List of \fIbackend\fRs defined for this service.
.TP
.B emergency
Emergency \fIbackend\fR object, or \fBnull\fR if no such backend is
defined.
.SS Backend
The following attributes are always present in each \fIbackend\fR object:
.TP
.B alive
.BR Boolean .
Whether or not this backend is alive.
.TP
.B conn_to
.BR Integer .
Connection timeout for this backend (seconds).
.TP
.B enabled
.BR Boolean .
Whether or not this backend is enabled.
.TP
.B io_to
.BR Integer .
I/O timeout for this backend (seconds).
.TP
.B priority
\fBInteger\fR in range 0-9.
Priority value assigned to this backend.
.TP
.B protocol
.BR String .
Protocol used by this backend: either \fBhttp\fR or \fBhttps\fR.
.TP
.B type
.BR String .
Backend type.  One of:
.BR acme ,
.BR backend ,
.BR control ,
.BR redirect .
.TP
.B ws_to
.BR Integer
Websocket timeout (seconds).
.PP
Depending on the backend type, the following attributes may be
present:
.TP
.B acme
.RS
.TP
.B path
.BR String .
Directory where ACME challenges are stored.
.RE
.TP
.B backend
.RS
.TP
.B address
.BR String .
Backend address.
.RE
.TP
.B redirect
.RS
.TP
.B url
.BR String .
URL to redirect to.
.TP
.B code
.BR Integer .
HTTP code for redirection responses.  One of: 301, 302, 307.
.TP
.B redir_req
.BR Boolean .
Whether to append the original request path to the resulting location.
.RE
.PP
If backend statistics is enabled (see \fBBackendStats\fR in
.BR pound (8)),
the \fBstats\fR object will be present, with the following attributes:
.TP
.B request_count
Total number of requests processed by this backend.
.TP
.B request_time_avg
Average time per request, in nanoseconds.
.TP
.B request_time_stddev
Standard deviation of the above.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pound (8),
.BR poundctl (8).
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <gray@gnu.org>.  You may also use github issue tracker
at https://github.com/graygnuorg/pound/issues.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2023 Sergey Poznyakoff
.sp
.na
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>
.sp
.ad
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.\" Local variables:
.\" eval: (add-hook 'write-file-hooks 'time-stamp)
.\" time-stamp-start: ".TH [A-Z_][A-Z0-9_.\\-]* [0-9] \""
.\" time-stamp-format: "%:B %:d, %:y"
.\" time-stamp-end: "\""
.\" time-stamp-line-limit: 20
.\" end:
