\input texinfo  @c -*- texinfo -*-
@setfilename pound.info
@c %**start of header
@settitle Pound

@defcodeindex op
@defcodeindex kw

@syncodeindex fn cp
@syncodeindex vr cp
@syncodeindex op cp
@syncodeindex kw cp

@include version.texi

@c Editor macros from the ``imprimatur'' package.
@macro deadlink{}
@ (@strong{Editor's note: dangling link})
@end macro

@macro FIXMEREF{text,string}
\text\ @i{\string\}@deadlink{}
@end macro

@macro FIXME-ref{string}
@FIXMEREF{,@i{\string\}}
@end macro

@macro FIXME-pxref{string}
@FIXMEREF{see,@i{\string\}}
@end macro

@macro FIXME-xref{string}
@FIXMEREF{See,@i{\string\}}
@end macro

@ifinfo
@dircategory Network applications
@direntry
* pound: (pound).        Light-weight proxy server.
* poundctl: (pound).     Pound proxy server runtime control.
@end direntry
@end ifinfo
@c %**end of header

@iftex
@finalout
@end iftex

@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 2024--2025 Sergey Poznyakoff

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
A copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU Free
Documentation License.''
@end quotation
@end copying

@titlepage
@title Pound
@subtitle version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author Sergey Poznyakoff.
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Pound

This edition of the @cite{Pound Manual}, last updated
@value{UPDATED}, documents @command{pound} version @value{VERSION}.

@insertcopying
@end ifnottex
@contents

@menu
* Overview::
* Introduction::
* Usage::
* Simple Proxy::
* HTTPS::
* Balancer::
* Worker model::
* Lua::
* Logging::
* Configuration::
* poundctl::
* Emacs::
* Metric Families::
* Time and Date Formats::
* Old Control Format::
* GNU Free Documentation License::
* Example Lua modules::
* Index::
@ifset WEBDOC
@ifhtml
* This Manual in Other Formats::
@end ifhtml
@end ifset

@detailmenu
 --- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Simple Proxy

* Service selection::
* Request modifications::
* Conditional branches::
* Modifying responses::
* Authentication::
* Rate-limiting::
* Redirects::
* Error responses::

Service Selection

* Regular Expressions::
* File-based Conditions::
* ACL::
* Detached Conditions::

HTTPS

* ACME::
* Redirect HTTP to HTTPS::
* HTTPS backends::

Request balancing

* Sessions::
* Balancer groups::
* Dynamic backends::

Extending @command{pound} functionality with Lua

* LuaLoad::    Loading Lua sources.
* LuaMatch::   Lua conditionals.
* LuaModify::  Changing requests and responses in Lua.
* Stash::      Sharing data between Lua functions.
* LuaBackend:: Lua backends.
* Lua API::

Changing requests and responses in Lua

* Cookie injection::

Configuration

* Lexical structure::
* Syntax::
* String Expansions::
* Global directives::
* File inclusion::
* Logging configuration::
* Management interface::
* Timeouts::
* ListenHTTP::
* ListenHTTPS::
* Service::
* resolver::

String Expansions

* Backreference Expansion::
* Request Accessors::

Global directives

* Runtime directives::
* Worker Settings::
* Proxy Tuning::
* SSL Settings::
* Regexp Settings::
* ACL definition::
* Condition::
* Lua Settings::

Management Interface

* Service Control::

ListenHTTP

* Listener address::
* Listener-specific limits::
* Error definitions::
* Listener logging::
* Request Modification::
* Response Modification::
* Error response rewriting::
* Service definitions::

Request Modification

* Rewrite::

Response Modification

* rewrite response::

Service

* Service Selection Statements::
* Service Request and Response Modification::
* Service Logging::
* Backends::
* Session::
* Other Statements::

Backends

* Backend::
* UseBackend::
* Special Backends::

poundctl

* poundctl commands::
* poundctl remote::
* poundctl config::
* poundctl options::
* poundctl template::

Configuring @command{poundctl}

* multiple servers::

@command{poundctl} template

* Template syntax::
* Pipelines::
* Variables::
* Input object::

Template syntax

* Actions::
* Arguments::

Input object

* Core listing::
* Full listing::
* Listener object::
* Service object::
* Backend object::

Example Lua modules

* jwt.lua::
* cookie.lua::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

 @command{Pound} is a reverse proxy, load balancer and HTTPS front-end
for Web servers.  It was developed to provide for even distribution of
load between backend httpd servers and to allow for a convenient SSL
wrapper for those servers that do not offer it natively.

 The core principles of its design are simplicity and safety.
@command{Pound}  is a very small program, easily audited for security
problems.  Normally it runs as a non-privileged user, and can
optionally be run in a chrooted environment.  With several exceptions,
it does not access the hard disk during its runtime.  In short, it
should pose no security threat to the server it runs at.

@cindex Robert Segall
@cindex Segall, Robert
@cindex Apsis
@cindex Rick O'Sullivan
@cindex O'Sullivan, Rick
@cindex Frank Schmirler
@cindex Schmirler, Frank
 The original version of @command{pound} was written by Robert Segall at
Apsis
GmbH@footnote{@uref{https://web.archive.org/web/20221202094441/https://apsis.ch/}}. In
2018, I added support for newer OpenSSL to the
then current version of the program (2.8).  This version of
@command{pound}, hosted on @command{github} was further modified by
Rick O'Sullivan and Frank Schmirler, who added WebSocket support.

 On April 2020, Apsis started development of @command{pound} 3.0 --
essentially an attempt to rewrite program from scratch, introducing
dependencies on some third-party software.

 On 2022-09-19, the development and maintenance of @command{pound} was
officially discontinued and Apsis GmbH was dissolved.  Following that,
I decided to continue development of the program taking my fork as a
base.  I considered the branch 3.0, which emerged for a short time
before the original project was abandoned, to be a failed experiment.
To ensure consistent versioning and avoid confusion, my versioning of
@command{pound} started at number 4.0.

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction
 The job of a proxy server is to receive incoming HTTP or HTTPS
requests, route them to the corresponding web server (@dfn{backend}),
wait for it to reply and forward the response back to the querying
party.  If more than one backend is configured to serve requests, the
proxy should distribute requests evenly between them, so that each
backend gets a share of requests proportional to its capacity.

@findex pound.cfg
 @command{Pound} gets information about backends and instructions on
HTTP request routing from its configuration file @file{pound.cfg}.  It
is located in the @dfn{system configuration directory}, which is
normally @file{/etc}@footnote{The exact location depends on
compilation options.  When in doubt, examine the output of
@command{pound -V}.}.  Syntactically, the configuration file is a sequence of
@dfn{statements} and @dfn{sections}, separated by arbitrary amount of
empty lines and comments.  A @dfn{simple statement} occupies a single
line and consists of a keyword (@dfn{directive}) and one or more
values separated by whitespace.  A @dfn{section} is a compound
statement that encloses other statements and sections.  Sections begin
with a keyword, optionally followed by arguments, and end with a word
@code{End} on a line by itself.  All keywords are case-insensitive.

@anchor{objects}
 The configuration file defines three kinds of objects:
@dfn{listeners}, @dfn{services}, and @dfn{backends}.  These are
defined as configuration sections.

@cindex listener
 A @dfn{listener} defines IP address (and optionally port),
@command{pound} will be listening on for incoming requests.  It
can also be regarded as a frontend definition.  Listener
declarations start with @code{ListenHTTP} (for plaintext HTTP
frontends) or @code{ListenHTTPS} (for HTTPS frontends) keywords.

@cindex service
@anchor{service intro}
 @dfn{Service} sections define rules that decide to which backend to
route requests received by the listeners.  These rules normally
involve analysis of the requested URL or HTTP headers.  A service may
also contain statements that modify requests or responses.

 Services are normally declared inside listeners.  Thus, when a
listener receives a request, it iterates over its services (in the
order of their appearance in the configuration file) to find the
one that matches the request.  If such a service is found, it receives
the request and eventually passes it on to a backend.

 Services may also be declared outside any listeners, in the
global scope.  Such services are shared between all listeners.  They
are tried if none of the services declared within a listener match the
incoming request.

 Service declarations start with the @code{Service} keyword.

@cindex backend
@cindex backend, regular
@cindex regular backend
 @dfn{Backends} are objects that actually handle requests and produce
responses.  Most often these are @dfn{regular backends}, which declare
IP addresses and ports of servers that are to handle the requests.
Backends are defined inside of services, so that the service that
matched the request routes it to its backend. If more than one backend
is defined within a service, incoming requests will be distributed so
that each backend gets its share of the load.

 Several special backend types are provided, such as emergency
backends, redirects, etc.  Only one special backend can be declared
for a service, and it cannot be used together with other backend
types.

 Thus, an average request processing looks as follows.  First,
a request is received by one of the listeners.  The listener then
iterates over its services, until it finds one that matches the
request.  If no such service was found, the listener retries the
process with the services defined in the global scope.  If no matching
service is found, a 503 error (@samp{Service Unavailable}) is
returned.  Otherwise, if the matching service was found, that service
passes the request to one of its backends.  It may modify the request
before that, if it is instructed so by the configuration.  Once the backend
responds, the service passes the response back to the listener (again,
optionally modifying it, if needed), which finally passes it back to
the querying party.

@node Usage
@chapter Usage
 When started, @command{pound} first parses its configuration file.
If any errors are detected at this stage, it prints the appropriate
diagnostics on the standard error and exits with code 1.  Otherwise,
if the configuration file is OK, @command{pound} opens sockets declared in the
listener sections, detaches itself from the controlling terminal and
starts serving incoming requests.  From that moment on, all diagnostic
messages are reported via @command{syslog} (@pxref{Logging}).

@anchor{lint}
 To check whether the configuration file is correct, run
@command{pound} with the @option{-c} (for @dfn{check}) configuration
option:

@example
pound -c
@end example

 Started this way, @command{pound} will check the configuration file,
report any errors, if found, and exit with status 0 if there are no
errors or 1 otherwise.  The option @option{-v} can be used to increase
the verbosity level.  In particular, it instructs @command{pound} to
print a confirmation message on standard error, if no errors have been
encountered (by default it would exit silently in this case).

 To use alternative configuration file, supply its full pathname with
the @option{-f} option, e.g.:

@example
pound -f /etc/pound/test.cfg
@end example

 If you are experimenting with new configurations, you might want to
run @command{pound} in foreground mode and have it print its
diagnostics on the standard error.  This is done by the @option{-e}
option.  So, for testing purposes, it is quite common to start it this
way:

@example
pound -e
@end example

 Another option, @option{-F}, has similar effect, except that it
honors logging settings from the configuration file
(@pxref{Logging}), i.e. when used with this option,
@command{pound} will remain in foreground, but will report its
messages in accordance with its configuration file.

 The following table summarizes all command line options:

@table @option
@opindex -c
@item -c
Check configuration file for syntax error and exit.  Exit code
indicates whether the configuration is OK (0) or not (1).

@opindex -e
@item -e
Start in foreground mode and log to standard error (or standard
output, for messages with LOG_DEBUG and LOG_INFO severity levels).
This option ignores the @code{LogLevel} configuration setting
(@pxref{Logging}).

@opindex -F
@item -F
Foreground mode.  Do not detach from the controlling terminal after
startup, but remain in the foreground instead.  This overrides the
@code{Daemon} configuration  setting (@pxref{Daemon}).  The log
stream (syslog facility or stderr) requested in the configuration file
remains in effect.

@opindex -f
@item -f @var{file}
Read configuration from the supplied @var{file}, instead of from the
default location.

@opindex -h
@item -h
Print short command line usage summary and exit.

@opindex -p
@item -p @var{file}
Sets location of the @dfn{PID file}.  This is the file where
@command{pound} will write its PID after startup.  This option
overrides the value set by the @code{PIDFile} configuration setting
(@pxref{PIDFile}).  Use @option{-p -} to disable creation of PID file.

@opindex -v
@item -v
Verbose mode.  During startup, error messages will be sent to stderr
(stdout, for @code{LOG_DEBUG} and @code{LOG_INFO} severities).  If
@command{pound} is configured to log to syslog, error diagnostics will be
duplicated there as well.  After startup the configuration settings
take effect.

When used with @option{-c} this option also instructs @command{pound}
to print an extra confirmation message on standard error, if there are
no errors in the configuration file.

@opindex -V
@item -V
Print program version, licensing terms, and configuration flags and
exit with status 0.  You can use this option, in particular, to get
the default values @command{pound} was built with, such as
e.g. configuration file location.

@opindex -W
@item -W @var{feature}
@itemx -W no-@var{feature}
Enable or disable (if prefixed with @samp{no-}) additional @command{pound}
features.  As of version @value{VERSION}, the following features are
implemented:

@defvr Feature warn-deprecated
When parsing the configuration file, warn if it uses any deprecated
statements.  This is the default.  To suppress deprecation
messages, use @option{-W no-warn-deprecated}.
@end defvr

@anchor{dns}
@defvr Feature dns
Resolve host names found in configuration file and returned in the
@code{Location:} header.  This is the default.

You can use @option{-W no-dns} to disable it, in order to
suppress potentially lengthy network host address lookups.  Make sure
that your configuration file refers to backends only by their IP
addresses in this case.

This setting affects also redirection location rewriting:
@xref{Response Modification, RewriteLocation}.
@end defvr

@defvr Feature include-dir=@var{dir}
@defvrx Feature no-include-dir
This controls the @dfn{include directory}, i.e. the directory where
@command{pound} looks for relative file names referred to in its
configuration file.  @xref{include directory}, for a detailed
discussion of this feature.

Using @option{-W include-dir=@var{dir}} sets the new value of the
include directory.

By default, the system configuration directory is used as include
directory, so that any relative file names are looked up there.  To
disable this, use the @option{-W no-include-dir} option.  This means
that each relative filename used in arguments to the directives in the
configuration file will be looked up in the current working directory.
This is useful mainly in testsuite.
@end defvr
@end table

@node Simple Proxy
@chapter Simple Proxy
 In this chapter we will deploy several simplest proxying
configurations to illustrate the concepts introduced above.

 Suppose you have an HTTP server running on localhost port 8080, and
want to make it accessible from outside.  This is achieved by the
following configuration file:

@example
ListenHTTP
    Address 0.0.0.0
    Port 80
    Service
        Backend
            Address 127.0.0.1
            Port 8080
        End
    End
End
@end example

This configuration consists of three nested sections:
@code{ListenHTTP}, @code{Service}, and @code{Backend}.  Each section
ends with a keyword @code{End} on a line by itself.

The first thing that draws attention are @code{Address} and
@code{Port} statements appearing in both listener and backend sections.
In @code{ListenHTTP} they specify the IP address and port to listen on
for incoming requests.  Address @samp{0.0.0.0} stands for all
available IP addresses@footnote{Strictly speaking, for all available
@emph{IPv4} addresses.  To bind to all available IPv4 and IPv6
addresses, use @samp{::0}.}.  In @code{Backend} section, these keywords
specify the address and port of the remote server, where incoming
requests are to be forwarded.

The @code{Service} section has no conditional statements, so it will
apply to all requests.

@menu
* Service selection::
* Request modifications::
* Conditional branches::
* Modifying responses::
* Authentication::
* Rate-limiting::
* Redirects::
* Error responses::
@end menu

@node Service selection
@section Service Selection
@cindex condition
@cindex conditional
@cindex matching rule
@cindex request matching rule
 Multiple services can be defined in order to route requests to
different servers, depending on the request content.  In this case,
each service has one or more @dfn{conditional statements}
(@dfn{conditionals}, for short), that define conditions which a
request must match in order to be routed to backends within that
particular service.  Syntactically, such conditionals have the form:

@example
@var{kw} [@var{options}] "@var{pattern}"
@end example

@noindent
where @var{kw} is a keyword specifying what part of the request is
used in comparison, @var{pattern} is a textual pattern which that
part is matched against, and @var{options} are zero or more flags starting
with a dash sign, which define matching algorithm.

@kwindex Host
 Perhaps the most often used condition is @code{Host}, which compares
the value of the HTTP @samp{Host} header with the given pattern.  By
default it uses exact case-insensitive match:

@example
Host "example.com"
@end example

To treat the pattern as a regular expression, use the @option{-re}
option, as in:

@example
Host -re ".*\\.example\\.com"
@end example

@cindex regular expressions, POSIX
@cindex POSIX regular expressions
Whenever we speak about regular expression we usually mean POSIX extended
regular expressions (@pxref{Extended
regexps, POSIX extended regular expressions, POSIX extended regular expressions,
sed, GNU sed}).  However, other regex types can also be used.  This is
covered in @ref{Regular Expressions}.

Notice the use of double backslashes in the above example.  The
backslash before each dot is needed to match it literally, while another one
protects the first one from being interpreted as an escape character in string
(@pxref{Strings}).

Other useful options are @option{-beg} and @option{-end}, which
enable exact matching at the beginning and end of the value,
correspondingly.  Thus, the @code{Host} statement above can be rewritten
as:

@example
Host -end ".example.com"
@end example

The set of options available for use in conditions is uniform.
@xref{conditional-option}, for a detailed discussion of available options.

The following configuration snippet illustrates the use of conditions
to select appropriate service (and, correspondingly, backend).
It will route all requests for @samp{www.example.com} to backend
@samp{192.0.2.1:8080}, and requests for @samp{admin.example.com} to
@samp{192.0.2.4:8080}:

@example
ListenHTTP
    Address 0.0.0.0
    Port 80

    Service
        Host "www.example.com"
        Backend
            Address 192.0.2.1
            Port 8080
        End
    End

    Service
        Host "admin.example.com"
        Backend
            Address 192.0.2.4
            Port 8080
        End
    End
End
@end example

Other conditions use POSIX regexp matching by default.  These are:

@table @code
@item Header
Compare HTTP header against a pattern.  E.g.

@example
Header "Content-Type:[[:space:]]*text/.*"
@end example

@item URL
Match URL:

@example
URL "/login/.*&name=.*"
@end example

@item Path
Match the path part of the URL:

@example
Path -beg "/login"
@end example

@item Query
Match the query part of the URL.

@item QueryParam
Match the value of a query parameter.  This statement takes two
arguments: parameter name and pattern, e.g.:

@example
QueryParam "type" "(int)|(bool)"
@end example
@end table

@xref{Service Selection Statements}, for a detailed description of these
and other conditions.

@cindex multiple conditions
@cindex conditions, joining
@cindex logical @samp{and}, implicit
@cindex conjunction, implicit
Multiple conditions can be used together.  Unless expressly specified
otherwise, they are joined by logical @samp{and} operation.  For example:

@example
Service
    Host "www.example.com"
    URL "^/admin(/.*)?"
    Backend
        Address 192.0.2.4
        Port 8080
    End
End
@end example

This service will be used for requests directed to host name
@samp{www.example.com} whose URL begins with @samp{/admin}, optionally
followed by more path components (such as, e.g. @samp{http://www.example.com/admin/login}).

@anchor{Match in service statement}
@kwindex Match
@cindex logical @samp{or}
@cindex @samp{or}, logical
@cindex logical disjunction
@cindex disjunction, logical
To select a service that matches one of defined rules (i.e. combine the
rules using logical @samp{or}), enclose them in @code{Match OR} block,
as in:

@example
@group
Match OR
    Host "example.com"
    Host "www.example.com"
End
@end group
@end example

@cindex logical @samp{and}
@cindex @samp{and}, logical
@cindex logical @samp{and}, explicit
@cindex logical conjunction, explicit
@cindex conjunction, logical
The argument to @code{Match} can be @samp{OR} or @samp{AND},
specifying logical operation to be used to join the enclosed
statements.  The argument can be omitted, in which case @samp{AND} is
implied.  @code{Match} statements can be nested to arbitrary depth,
which allows for defining criteria of arbitrary complexity.  For
example:

@example
Service
    Match OR
        Host "admin.example.com"
        Match AND
            Host "www.example.com"
            URL "^/admin(/.*)?"
        End
    End
    Backend
        Address 192.0.2.4
        Port 8080
    End
End
@end example

@menu
* Regular Expressions::
* File-based Conditions::
* ACL::
* Detached Conditions::
@end menu

@node Regular Expressions
@subsection Regular Expressions

@cindex regular expressions, PCRE
@cindex regular expressions, Perl-compatible
@cindex Perl-compatible regular expressions
Request matching directives use POSIX extended regular expressions by
default.  If @command{pound} was compiled with @code{PCRE} or
@code{PCRE2} library, @dfn{Perl-compatible regular expressions} can be
used instead.  This can be done either globally or individually for a
given directive.

@kwindex RegexType
To change regular expression type globally, use the following
directive:

@example
RegexType pcre
@end example

It affects all conditions that appear after it in the configuration
file, until next @code{RegexType} directive or end of file, whichever
occurs first.  To change back to POSIX regular expressions, use
@code{posix} argument:

@example
RegexType posix
@end example

Argument to the @code{RegexType} directive is case-insensitive.

Regular expression type can also be selected individually for a
directive, using @option{-posix} or @option{-pcre} flags.  For
example:

@example
Host -pcre -icase "(?<!www\\.)example.org"
@end example

@node File-based Conditions
@subsection File-based Conditions
@kwindex -file
@kwindex -filewatch
@cindex file monitoring
  Most conditional directives take @option{-file} and
@option{-filewatch} options.  When specified either option, the
argument immediately following it is treated as the name of a file
from which to read the list of regular expression patterns or other
conditional parameters, depending on the directive.  The file is read
at startup and cached in memory, so that applying the conditional does
not result in disk accesses.

If the @option{-file} option is used, the file is read at startup and its
contents is remembered for the lifetime of the program.  It is an error
if the file does not exist.  Any errors in the file are treated as
configuration file errors and cause immediate program termination.

In the contrast, if the @option{-filewatch} option is used, the file
is read at startup and a file system monitor is set up to catch its
modifications.  Once a change to the file is detected, it will be
reloaded without interrupting the operation of the server.
Consequently, when the @option{-filewatch} option is used, it is OK if
the file does not exist at startup.  Furthermore, any errors in the
file contents are reported, but don't cause program termination.

@cindex inotify
@cindex kqueue
  The support for that option depends on the operating system.  On
GNU/Linux systems, @command{pound} uses @code{inotify} kernel API
@footnote{@xref{inotify,, monitoring file system events, inotify(7), inotify(7)
man page}.}.  On BSD systems (FreeBSD, OpenBSD, NetBSD, Darwin), it
uses @code{kqueue}@footnote{@pxref{kqueue,,kernel event notification
mechanism,kqueue(2),kqueue(2) man page}.}.  To check which API your
@command{pound} binary is compiled with, examine the output of
@command{pound -V}.

@kwindex WatcherTTL
  Both @code{inotify} and @code{kqueue} allow @command{pound} to react
immediately on file system changes.  On systems that don't support
either API, @command{pound} falls back to periodic checking of file
modification time (@dfn{mtime}).  In that case, the reload is
initiated if @code{mtime} changes.  The interval between two
successive checks is defined by the @code{WatcherTTL} statement
(@pxref{Timeouts, WatcherTTL}) and defaults to 60 seconds.

  Following is a list of conditional statements that implement file
monitoring support: @code{BasicAuth}, @code{Header}, @code{Host},
@code{Path}, @code{Query}, @code{QueryParam}, @code{StringMatch},
@code{URL}.

@xref{request matching directives}, for a detailed discussion of these.

@node ACL
@subsection ACL
@cindex ACL
  Access control lists, or @dfn{ACLs}, are special conditional
statements that evaluate to true for requests originating from one
of the predefined IP addresses.  Access control lists are defined using the
@code{ACL} section statement, which has three forms: anonymous,
file reference, and ACL reference.  In all three forms, the @code{ACL}
statement accepts optional argument @code{-forwarded}, which indicates
that the remote IP should be determined from the
@code{X-Forwarded-From} IP address (@pxref{%a}), instead of using the
actual originator IP.

In @dfn{anonymous} form, the @code{ACL} is a section statement: the
keyword is followed by a newline and a list of CIDRs, terminated with
@code{End} on a separate line.  Each line in the list defines a single
CIDR enclosed in double quotes.  A @dfn{CIDR} consists of a
@dfn{network address} (IPv4 or IPv6), optionally followed by slash and
@dfn{network mask length}, a decimal number in the range [0,32] for
IPv4 and [0,64] for IPv6.  For example:

@example
@group
ACL
    "127.0.0.1/8"
    "192.0.2.0/25"
End
@end group
@end example

  For convenience, @code{Include} statements (@pxref{File inclusion})
can also be used between @code{ACL} and @code{End}.

@anchor{File reference ACL}
@kwindex -file
  In @dfn{file reference} form, the ACL syntax is:

@example
ACL -file "@var{name}"
@end example

@noindent
or

@example
ACL -filewatch "@var{name}"
@end example

  Here, @var{name} is the name of a disk file with the ACL definition.
Its syntax is similar to the contents of anonymous ACL definition,
except that CIDRs need not be quoted, and @code{Include} statements
are not allowed.  If the file name is relative, it is looked up in the
@ref{include directory}.

  If the @option{-file} keyword is used, the file is read at startup
and its contents is remembered for the lifetime of the program.  It is an
error if the file does not exist.  Any errors in the file are treated
as configuration file errors and cause immediate program termination.

@anchor{ACL filewatch}
@kwindex -filewatch
  If the @option{-filewatch} keyword is used, the file is read at
startup and is then being monitored for changes during the runtime.
@xref{File-based Conditions}, for details.

@anchor{ACL reference}
  The third syntax form for @code{ACL} statements is @dfn{ACL
reference}.  As its name implies, the ACL in this form refers to
another @dfn{named ACL}, defined elsewhere in the configuration
files. Syntactically, it is

@example
ACL "@var{name}"
@end example

@noindent
where @var{name} is the name of the ACL to refer to.  This syntax
makes it possible to use a single ACL in multiple places of the configuration
file.

Named access control lists are defined at the top level of a
configuration file.  Syntactically, the definition is similar to
anonymous or file reference forms of ACLs as discussed above, except
that the keyword @code{ACL} is followed on the same line by the name
to be assigned to that ACL, in double quotes.  Thus the following are
valid named ACL declarations:

@example
ACL "secure" -file "aclfile"
@end example

@example
ACL "secure" -filewatch "aclfile"
@end example

@example
@group
ACL "secure"
    "127.0.0.1/8"
    "192.0.2.0/25"
End
@end group
@end example

All three examples define a named ACL @samp{secure}.  The former two
read its contents from the disk file @file{aclfile}.  The latter one
provides its definition in the form of a section.  This ACL can then
be used in any @code{Service} appearing after its definition by using
the following construct:

@example
ACL "secure"
@end example

  Consider for example the following service declaration:

@example
@group
Service
    ACL "secure"
    Path -beg "/stat"
    Backend
        ...
    End
End
@end group
@end example

  This service will handle requests whose URL starts with  @samp{/stat}, if
they came from one of the IP addresses mentioned in the access control
list with the name @samp{secure}.  Effectively, this means that the
access to that URL is limited to these IP addresses.

@node Detached Conditions
@subsection Detached Conditions
@cindex detached conditional
@cindex conditional, detached
@kwindex Condition
  If a conditional statement is used in multiple places throughout the
configuration, it could be wise to rewrite it as a @dfn{detached
condition}.  Detached condition is an abstract conditional
statement, not connected with any service or listener.  It is assigned
a unique name that serves as its identifier.  Syntactivally, such
conditonal is defined using @code{Condition} section in global
scope of the configuration file:

@example
@group
Condition "@var{name}"
  ...
End
@end group
@end example

@noindent
Here, the ellipsis represents any number of conditional statements
described above.

@kwindex eval
@cindex detached condition, evaluating
  Once defined, detached conditions can be @dfn{evaluated} in any
number of @code{Service} or @code{Rewrite} sections, using the
following construct:

@example
Eval "@var{name}"
@end example

  Evaluating a detached condition means applying its contents to the
incoming request.  In this regard, it can be seen as an equivalent to
including contents of the @code{Condition} statement in place.  There
are two major differences, though.  First, any parenthesized groups in
regular expressions (@pxref{parenthesized subexpression}) are visible
only within condition itself.  In other words, they cannot be referred
to from outside the @code{Condition} block.  Secondly, and most
importantly, no matter how often used in the configuration, each
detached condition is evaluated only once.  All subsequent @code{Eval}
statements just return the result of first evaluation.  This way, the
use of detached conditions can speed up request processing (and reduce
the CPU load) for conditionals that require a lot of calculations,
such as long ACLs or complex Lua functions (@pxref{Lua}).

  Consider the following configuration snippet (irrelevant statements
being omitted):

@example
Condition "secure"
    ACL -file "secure.acl"
End

ListenHTTP
    ...
    Service "a"
        Host -re ".*\\.example\\.com"
        Eval "bigacl"
        Backend
            Address 192.0.2.129
        End
    End
    Service "b"
        Host "example.com"
        Backend
            Address 192.0.2.5
        End
    End
    Service "c"
        Host "bar.example.com"
        Eval "bigacl"
        Backend
            Address 192.0.2.2
        End
    End
End
@end example

  If a request comes for host @samp{bar.example.com} from an IP listed
in file @file{secure.acl}, it will be matched against conditionals in
services @samp{a} and @samp{b} before selecting service @samp{c}.
When processing @samp{a}, the @code{Eval} statement will scan the ACL,
find that it matches the originator IP and cache that value.  When the
same statement is encountered in service @samp{c}, no actual ACL
processing will take place, instead @command{pound} will reuse the
result cached earlier.  If @file{secure.acl} contains a long list of
IP addresses, this can save a lot of time.

@node Request modifications
@section Request modifications
  A service can modify requests before forwarding them to backends.  Several
statements are provided for that purpose:

@table @asis
@item SetHeader
Set a HTTP header.

@item DeleteHeader
Delete a HTTP header.

@item SetURL
Rewrite the request URL.

@item SetPath
Rewrite the path part of the URL.

@item SetQuery
Rewrite the query part of the URL.

@item DeleteQuery
Delete the query part of the URL.

@item SetQueryParam
Set or delete a single query parameter.
@end table

For example, the following service declaration will add the header
@samp{X-Resent-By: pound} to each request:

@example
@group
Service
    SetHeader "X-Resent-By: pound"
    Backend
       ...
    End
End
@end group
@end example

@cindex backreference expansion
@cindex expansion, backreference
@cindex parenthesized subexpression
@anchor{parenthesized subexpression}
Arguments to request modification statements are expanded before
actual use.  During expansion, references to @dfn{parenthesized
subexpressions} in conditionals are replaced with their actual
values.  @dfn{Parenthesized subexpression} is a part of a regular
expression enclosed in parentheses.  It can be referred to in
string arguments as @samp{$@var{n}}, where @var{n} is its ordinal
number.  Numbers start at one, @samp{$0} referring to the entire string
that matched.

The process of expanding parenthesized subexpressions is called
@dfn{backreference expansion}.

For example, the following condition:

@example
Header "Content-Type: ([^/]+)/(.+)$"
@end example

@noindent
has two subexpressions: @samp{$1} and @samp{$2}.  The following
fragment uses these values to add two query parameters to the URL:

@example
@group
SetQueryParam "type" "$1"
SetQueryParam "subtype" "$2"
@end group
@end example

As a more practical example, the following service rewrites the path
to JPEG and GIF images:

@example
@group
Service
    Path "/([^/]+\\.(jpg|gif))$"
    SetPath "/images/$1"
    ...
End
@end group
@end example

@cindex tagged statements
@cindex referring to subexpressions
@cindex referring to previous conditionals
When several conditions are used, these forms refer to the
last matched one.  Subexpressions in prior statements can be referred to
using the @samp{$@var{i}(@var{j})} construct.  Here, @var{j} is either
the @dfn{tag} of the expression to refer to (if the statement was
tagged, @pxref{tag}), or the 0-based number of the statement, counted
from the last one upwards.  For example, consider the following statements:

@example
@group
Host -tag "host" -re "(www\\.)?(.+)"
Header -tag "type" -icase "^Content-Type:[[:space:]]*(([^/]+)/([^;]+)).*"
Path -tag "dir" "^/static(/.*)?"
@end group
@end example

If the incoming request was @samp{GET /static/index.html} with the two
headers

@example
Host: example.org
Content-Type: text/html
@end example

@noindent
then, the backreferences and the corresponding strings will be:

@example
$1 @result{} /index.html
$1(dir) @result{} /index.html
$1(1) @result{} text/html
$2(1) @result{} text
$3(1) @result{} html
$1(type) @result{} text/html
$2(type) @result{} text
$3(type) @result{} html
$1(2) @result{} www.
$2(2) @result{} example.org
$1(host) @result{} www.
$2(host) @result{} example.org
@end example

@cindex request accessor
String arguments to @code{Set} statements can also contain
@dfn{request accessors} -- special constructs that are expanded to
particular values from the request.  Syntactically, a request accessor
is @samp{%[@var{name}]}, where @var{name} denotes the request part
to access.  For example, @code{%[url]} expands to entire URL,
@code{%[path]} to the path part of the URL, etc.

Using request accessors, the above example of path modification can
be rewritten as:

@example
@group
Path "\\.(jpg|gif)$"
SetPath "/images%[path]"
@end group
@end example

@xref{Request Accessors}, for a detailed discussions of
available accessors.

@node Conditional branches
@section Conditional branches
@kwindex rewrite
 Conditional request modifications can be organized in logical
branches, each branch being applied only if the request matches
certain condition.  The @code{Rewrite} section encloses a set of
conditional statements followed by one or more request modification
statements, which will be applied if the former match the request.
Optional @code{Else} sub-section, which in turn contains conditional
and modification statements, will be tried if those rules don't
match.  Any number of @code{Else} sub-sections is allowed, each one being
tried if the previous ones don't match.

 The example below illustrates this concept.  This configuration
snippet sets different paths depending on the file type and URL used:

@example
Service
    Rewrite
        Header "Content-Type:[[:space:]]+image/.*"
        SetPath "/images%[path]"
    Else
        Match AND
            Host "example.org"
            Path "\\.[^.]+$"
        End
        SetPath "/static%[path]"
    Else
        Path "\\.[^.]+$"
        SetPath "/assets%[path]"
    End
    ...
End
@end example

@node Modifying responses
@section Modifying responses
 The @code{rewrite} statement can also be used to modify responses
received from backends before passing them back to the querying
party.  To indicate this intent, the @code{Rewrite} statement must be
followed by the @code{response} keyword:

@example
@group
Rewrite response
    SetHeader "X-Been-There: pound"
End
@end group
@end example

When modifying responses, only two request modification statements
are allowed: @code{SetHeader} and @code{DeleteHeader}.  The list of
conditionals is limited as well: @code{Header} and @code{StringMatch},
plus @code{Match} and @code{Not} directives.
Notice that these conditionals operate on the response, and not on the
request, as in previous chapters.  For example:

@example
@group
Rewrite response
    Header "Content-Type:[[:space:]]+text/(.*)"
    SetHeader "X-Text-Type: $1"
End
@end group
@end example

This will insert an additional @code{X-Text-Type} header into the
response.  It will contain the subtype value from the
@code{Content-Type} header of the original response.

@node Authentication
@section Authentication
@cindex authentication, basic
@cindex basic authentication
@cindex RFC 7617
 Along with access control lists, introduced above (@pxref{ACL}),
authentication provides another way to limit access to certain
services.  @command{Pound} supports @dfn{basic authentication}, as
defined in RFC 7617.

 This authentication method relies on the presence of the
@code{Authorization} header in the HTTP request.  If the header is
present, its value specifies the @samp{Basic} authorization method and
contains credentials (username and password) that match one of the
users from the server user database, the request is accepted.
Otherwise a 401 (@samp{Authentication Required}) or 407 (@samp{Proxy
Authentication Required}) response is returned with the
@code{WWW-Authenticate} header requesting basic authentication.

@kwindex BasicAuth
 The @code{BasicAuth} conditional statement verifies if the
@code{Authorization} header is present and provides correct
credentials.  The statement matches the request if so.

@cindex user database
 The @code{BasicAuth} statement takes a single argument, specifying
the name of a file containing @dfn{user database}.  This is a plain-text
file created with @command{htpasswd} or similar utility, i.e. each
non-empty line of it must contain username and password hash separated
by a colon.  Password hash can be one of:

@itemize @bullet
@item Password in plain text.
@item Hash created by the system @code{crypt}(3) function.
@item Password hashed using SHA1 algorithm and encoded in BASE64.
This hash must be prefixed by @samp{@{SHA@}}.
@item @command{Apache}-style @samp{APR1} hash.
@end itemize

 Password file is read at startup, after which its contents is stored
in memory.  @command{Pound} will re-read it if it notices that the
file has changed, so you need not restart the daemon if you do any
changes to the file.

 Thus, if you put the @code{BasicAuth} statement in each service that
must be accessible to authorized users only, that would do the first
and principal part of the basic authentication scheme: access control.
There remains second part: returning properly formatted 401 response
if the request did not pass authorization.  That can be done using a
combination of the @code{Error} internal backend (@pxref{Error
responses}) and response modification techniques described in the
previous section.

 However, instead of using @code{BasicAuth} in each service requiring
limited access and placing a service generating the 401 response in
the end, it is simpler and less error-prone to use the following
approach:

 Create a service with the following content:

@example
@group
Service
    Not BasicAuth "pound/htpasswd"
    Rewrite response
        SetHeader "WWW-Authenticate: Basic realm=\"Restricted access\""
    End
    Error 401
End
@end group
@end example

 Replace the file name (@file{pound/htpasswd}) and realm name
(@samp{Restricted access}) with the actual values.

 Make sure that all services that need to be protected by basic
authentication are declared after that service.  This way, any request
that does not convey an @code{Authentication} header with credentials
matching an entry from your password file will match this service, and
will be replied to with a properly formatted 401 response, which will
prompt the remote user to authenticate themselves.  On the other hand,
authorized requests will not match this service and will eventually be
handled by one of the services declared after it.

@node Rate-limiting
@section Rate-limiting
@cindex rate-limiting
@cindex token bucket filter
@kwindex TBF
  Rate-limiting is a technique that controls the number of requests
processed by a service in a second.  @command{Pound} contains
mechanism to implement rate-limiting using @dfn{token bucket filter}
algorithm.

  The token bucket filter decides whether a request can be accepted
based on the presence of abstract entities called @dfn{tokens} in a container
called @dfn{bucket}.  Each token represents an ability to process one
incoming request.  The algorithm works as follows:

@itemize @bullet
@item
Tokens are added to the bucket at a constant rate of @var{r} tokens
per second.
@item
A bucket can host at most @var{M} tokens.  Any tokens arriving when
the bucket is full are discarded.
@item
If a request arrives when the bucket holds some tokens, one token is
removed and the request is accepted.
@item
If the bucket is empty, the request is not accepted.
@end itemize

   This algorithm makes sure requests are accepted at a constant rate
or @var{r} requests per seconds with bursts of up to @var{M} requests.
Such bursts occur when no requests arrive for @var{M}/@var{r} or more
seconds.

  The special conditional statement @code{TBF} provides an interface
to this algorithm.  The statement takes three arguments: @var{key},
a string identifying the bucket, and the values of @var{r} and
@var{M}.  It evaluates to @dfn{true} if the algorithm accepts the
request and to @dfn{false} otherwise.  Placing that conditional in
a @code{Service} section ensures that requests will be processed at
the configured rate.  For each such service section, there is normally
another one to be used for requests that arrive faster than allowed.
The selection criteria for the two sections differ only by the absence
of @code{TBF} conditional in the second section.  Consider the
following example:

@example
Service "git"
   Host "example.org"
   Path -re "^/git/([^/]+).*"
   TBF "$1" 5 10
   Backend
       Address 192.0.2.10
       Port 80
   End
End
Service "block"
   Host "example.org"
   Path -re "^/git/([^/]+).*"
   Error 429
End
@end example

  This configuration limits request rate to any path beginning with
@file{/git/} (presumably, a @command{git} repository) to 5 requests
per second with bursts of up to 10 requests.  The bucket to use is
identified by the first directory component after the @file{/git/}
prefix, so that rates are computed for each repository individually.
Requests that conform to that policy are routed to the backend at
@samp{192.0.2.10:80}.  This is configured by the service section
@samp{git}.

  The requests that arrive quicker than permitted by that service will
be served by service @samp{block}, which will respond to them with
HTTP status 429 (@samp{Too Many Requests}).  @xref{Special Backends,
Error}, for a discussion of @code{Error} backend.

  To compute rates for each connection individually, use the
@code{remoteip} accessor (@pxref{Request Accessors}).  In that case
the corresponding fragment from the example above becomes:

@example
   Path -re "^/git/([^/]+).*"
   TBF "%[remoteip 0]-$1" 5 10
@end example

  If the rate limit should apply to several services, the recommended
course of action is to declare such @dfn{error} service first, using
a common subset of conditions for all services it is intended to cover
and a negation of @code{TBF}.  E.g.:

@example
@group
Service "rate-limit"
   Host "example.org"
   Path -re "^/git/([^/]+).*"
   Not TBF "$1" 5 10
   Error 429
End
@end group
@end example

This service section shall be followed by the services it protects.

@node Redirects
@section Redirects
@cindex backend, special
@cindex backend, external
@cindex special backend
@cindex internal backend
 Apart from regular backends introduced in previous sections,
@command{pound} provides also several @dfn{special} or @dfn{internal}
backends.  As their name implies, such backends handle requests
and generate responses internally, without forwarding them to any
external entities.

@kwindex redirect
 One of such internal backends is @code{Redirect}.  It generates
responses redirecting the client to another location.  The
statement takes two arguments: a three-digit HTTP status code to
return, and the URL to redirect to:

@example
@group
Service
    Redirect 301 "https://www.gnu.org"
End
@end group
@end example

 Allowed values for the status code are 301, 302, 303, 307 and 308.
This argument is optional: if omitted, 302 is used.

 If the URL argument has no path component (as in the example above),
then the path (and query, if present) components from the original
request will be appended to it.  For example, if the original URL were
@indicateurl{http://example.com/software}, the service above would
redirect it @indicateurl{https://www.gnu.org/software}.

 Otherwise, if the path component is present in the URL argument
(even if it is a mere @samp{/}), then the URL is used as is.  For
example, the following will drop any path and query components from
the URL when redirecting:

@example
Redirect 301 "https://www.gnu.org/"
@end example

 The URL argument is subject to backreference expansion and
request accessor interpretation (@pxref{Request modifications}).  If
any of these are actually used, the above logic is disabled.

 String expansions make it possible to implement complex redirects.
For example, the following redirect swaps the first two path
components of the original URL:

@example
@group
Service
    URL "^/([^/]+)/([^/]+)(/.*)?"
    Redirect "http://%[host]/$2/$1$3"
End
@end group
@end example

 The following is a standard paradigm for redirecting requests from
HTTP to HTTPS:

@example
@group
Service
    Redirect 301 "https://%[host]%[url]"
End
@end group
@end example

@node Error responses
@section Error responses
 Another type of internal backends is @code{Error}, a backend that
generates error responses.  It is useful, for instance, to provide
a custom error status and/or message when no service matches the
request.  Normally, for such cases @command{pound} generates a
standard 503 response (@samp{Service Unavailable}) with the built-in
error page.  You can customize this behavior by using as the last
service a @code{Service} section with @code{Error} backend.
For example:

@example
@group
Service
    Error 404 "pound/404.html"
End
@end group
@end example

 The first argument specifies the HTTP status code to return.
@xref{Error backend}, for more info.

 The second argument is optional.  It supplies the name of a file with
the error page to return along with the response.  The name may be
absolute or relative.  In the latter case, the file will be looked
up in the @dfn{include directory}, a special directory for storing
pound-specific files.  @xref{include directory}.  The file
will be read only once, at program startup.  If you modify the file
and want @command{pound} to notice changes, you will have to restart
it.

 Unless the file begins with a newline or @samp{<} character, its
initial portion up to first empty line (inclusive) supplies headers
that will be sent with the response.  The following defaults will be
used, unless already defined in the file:

@example
@group
Content-Type: text/html
Expires: now
Pragma: no-cache
Cache-control: no-cache,no-store
@end group
@end example

 If the second argument is not supplied, the error text is determined
by the @code{ErrorFile @var{code}} statement in the enclosing listener (where
@var{code} is the HTTP code in question).  If it is not supplied, the
built-in default text is used.  @xref{Error definitions}.

@node HTTPS
@chapter HTTPS
 In the previous chapter we have described basic proxying techniques
using plain HTTP listener as an example.  Now we will discuss how to
use HTTPS both for listeners and backends.

 To accept HTTPS requests you need to declare @code{ListenHTTPS}
listener.  It is similar to plain @code{ListenHTTP} described above,
except that it requires a @dfn{certificate} to be declared.  For
example:

@example
@group
ListenHTTPS
    Address 0.0.0.0
    Port 443
    Cert "/etc/ssl/priv/example.pem"
    Disable TLSv1
    Ciphers "HIGH:@@STRENGTH:!RSA"
End
@end group
@end example

 The @code{Cert} statement supplies the name of the certificate file
in PEM format.  The file must contain the certificate, intermediate
certificates (if necessary), and certificate private key, in that
order.

 The @code{Cert} argument can also specify a directory, in which case
@code{pound} will scan that directory, trying to read the certificate
from each regular file encountered.  It will report an error if unable
to load the file, so this directory should contain only certificate
files.  The order in which certificate files are read is not
specified.

 Multiple @code{Cert} statements are allowed.  When trying to find the
matching certificate, @command{pound} will stop at the first one whose
@code{CN} matches the requested host name.  Thus, the ordering of
@code{Cert} statements is important.  Normally they should be placed
in most-specific to least-specific order, with wildcard certificates
appearing after host-specific ones.

 @code{Cert} directives must precede all other SSL-specific directives.

 Another important directive is @code{Disable}.  It disables the use
of the specified TLS protocol as well as all protocols older than it.
Usually it is used to disable obsolete protocols.  For example,
the @code{Disable} statement in the example above disables @samp{TLSv1},
@samp{SSLv3}, and @samp{SSLv2}.

 To further tune the strength of your encryption use the @code{Ciphers}
directive.  Its argument is a colon-delimited list of OpenSSL ciphers,
as described in @xref{ciphers,,,ciphers(1)}.  The cipher selection
shown in the example above provides for excellent encryption strength.

@menu
* ACME::
* Redirect HTTP to HTTPS::
* HTTPS backends::
@end menu

@node ACME
@section ACME
@cindex LetsEncrypt
@cindex challenges, ACME
 Automatic Certificate Management Environment (@dfn{ACME}), is a
protocol for automated deployment of HTTPS certificates.  It is
perhaps the most often used method for obtaining SSL certificates
nowadays.  In order to issue certificate for a domain or domains,
the protocol verifies that the web server that is requesting a
certificate actually owns these domains.  This process is based on
various @dfn{challenge types}.

@cindex challenge directory, ACME
@command{Pound} supports
HTTP-01@footnote{@uref{https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/#http-01-challenge}}
challenge type.  When issuing a certificate using this challenge type,
the ACME client (a program responsible for periodic certificate
re-issuing) obtains from the authority a challenge file, and
stores it in a predefined @dfn{challenge directory}.  The authority
will then request this file from the webserver using a predefined
URL.  It is supposed that the server will serve it from the file that
has been just written by the agent.  If the server returns the file,
its claim to own the domain is proved and the certificate is issued.

 Configuring @command{pound} to reply to challenge requests is as
simple as putting an @code{ACME} statement to the @code{ListenHTTP}
section of its configuration file.  The statement takes a single
argument -- name of the challenge directory:

@example
@group
ListenHTTP
    Address 0.0.0.0
    Port 80
    ACME "/var/lib/pound/.well-known/acme-challenge"
End
@end group
@end example

Needless to say, your ACME agent and @command{pound} must agree on
this directory location.  Configuration of various ACME agents is
beyond the scope of this document.  Please refer to the documentation
of your agent for further details.

@node Redirect HTTP to HTTPS
@section Redirect HTTP to HTTPS

 Nowadays it is common to redirect all plain HTTP requests to HTTPS
on the same URL.  The method of doing so was described in
@ref{Redirects, HTTP to HTTPS}.  As an example, this section shows
a working HTTPS configuration with such redirect.

@example
ListenHTTP
    Address 0.0.0.0
    Port 80
    Service
        Redirect 301 "https://%[host]%[url]"
    End
End

ListenHTTPS
    Address 0.0.0.0
    Port 443
    Cert "/etc/ssl/priv/example.pem"
    Disable TLSv1
    Service
        Backend
            Address 127.0.0.1
            Port 8080
        End
    End
End
@end example

@node HTTPS backends
@section HTTPS backends

 Backends can use HTTPS as well.  To inform @command{pound} that
communication with the backend goes over an encrypted channel, use
the @code{HTTPS} keyword.  The typical usage is:

@example
@group
Backend
    Address 192.0.2.1
    Port 443
    HTTPS
End
@end group
@end example

 Notice, that unlike other statements, @code{HTTPS} is used without
arguments.

 Additional directives are available for fine-tuning the connection.
If used, they must appear after the @code{HTTPS} directive,

 The @code{Cert} directive specify the client certificate to use when
connecting.  Use it if the backend requires client authentication.

 The @code{Disable} and @code{Ciphers} directives are similar to those
described when discussing @code{ListenHTTPS}: the former disables the
given TLS protocol and all protocols prior to it, and the latter
configures the list of OpenSSL ciphers which the client wishes to
use.  The actual cipher to use will be selected from this list during
negotiation with the backend.

 The example below illustrates the use of these directives:

@example
@group
Backend
    Address 192.0.2.1
    Port 443
    HTTPS
    Disable TLSv1_1
    Cert "/etc/pound/crt/b1.pem"
    Ciphers "HIGH:!RSA"
End
@end group
@end example

@node Balancer
@chapter Request balancing
@cindex balancing
@cindex load balancing
@cindex request balancing
  When several backends are defined in a service, incoming requests
will be distributed among them.  This process is called @dfn{balancing}.
By default, requests are distributed equally.  This can be changed by
assigning them a @dfn{priority} -- a positive integer which assigns a
relative weight of the given backend in the distribution algorithm.
The greater the priority is, the more requests this backend gets from
the total flow.

@cindex balancing strategy
@cindex strategy, request balancing
  The distribution algorithm is defined by @dfn{balancing strategy}.
As of version @value{VERSION}, @command{pound} supports two
strategies: @dfn{weighted random balancing} and @dfn{interleaved
weighted round robin balancing}.

@table @dfn
@cindex Weighted random balancing
@item Weighted Random Balancing

This is the default strategy.  The backend to use for each
request is determined at random, taking into account backend
priorities, so that backends with numerically greater priorities have
proportionally greater chances of being selected than the ones with
lesser priorities.

@cindex Interleaved weighted round robin balancing
@item Interleaved Weighted Round Robin Balancing

This strategy cycles over all active backends, considering each one in
its turn.  An integer ordinal number is assigned to each round, which
is incremented (modulo number of backends) each time a new round is
started.  A backend is assigned a request only if its priority is
greater than the round number.

This strategy offers several advantages compared with the previous
one.  First, it results in a more even distribution of the
requests.  Secondly, the resulting distribution is predictable.
@end table

  Overall, the share of requests a given backend receives can be
estimated as:

@example
@math{P@sub{i} / S(P)}
@end example

@noindent
where @math{P@sub{i}} is the priority of the backend with index
@math{i}, and @math{S(P)} is the sum of all priorities.

  Weighted random balancing is used by default.  Each backend gets the
default priority 5, unless another value is expressly assigned using
the @code{Priority} statement, e.g.:

@example
Service
    Backend
        Address 192.168.0.1
        Port 80
        Priority 1
    End
    Backend
        Address 192.168.0.2
        Port 80
        Priority 9
    End
End
@end example

In this example, backend @command{192.168.0.2} will receive roughly 9
times more requests than backend @command{192.168.0.1}.

@kwindex Balancer
The balancing strategy to use is defined by the @code{Balancer}
keyword, which can appear either in the global scope or within a
@code{Service} section.  Its argument can be one of:

@table @code
@kwindex random
@item random
Use weighted random balancing (default).

@kwindex iwrr
@item iwrr
Use interleaved weighted round robin balancing.
@end table

The @code{Balancer} statement appearing in the global scope defines
balancing strategy for all services that don't have @code{Balancer}
statement on their own.

@menu
* Sessions::
* Balancer groups::
* Dynamic backends::
@end menu

@node Sessions
@section Sessions
 Some web applications attempt to introduce state persistence into the
stateless HTTP protocol, by defining @dfn{sessions} using various
mechanisms, such as specially defined headers, cookies, etc.  For such
applications it is critical that all requests that belong to a single
@dfn{session} be directed to the same server, i.e. backend.  Clearly,
this disrupts the balancer logic, and requires that the proxy be able
to understand the backend's notion of session.

 @command{Pound} is able to detect and track sessions identified by
client address, Basic authentication (user id/password), URL
parameter, cookie, HTTP parameter, and HTTP header value.

@kwindex session
 Session tracking is enabled on a per-service basis by a
@code{Session} section.  The section must contain at least the
@code{Type} directive, which specifies what type of session tracking
to use, and the @code{TTL} directive, supplying session idle timeout
in seconds.

 Session types are case-insensitive.  They are summarized in the table
below:

@table @code
@item IP
The @code{IP} session tracking type instructs @code{pound} to forward
all requests from the same client IP address to the same backend
server:

@example
@group
Session
    Type IP
    TTL  300
End
@end group
@end example

@item Basic
Using this session tracking type, @command{pound} parses the
@code{Authentication} header of each request.  If the header is
present, and specifies the @samp{Basic} authentication type, user ID
is extracted from it.  Requests with the same user ID are forwarded to
the same backend server.

@example
@group
Session
    Type Basic
    TTL  300
End
@end group
@end example

@item URL
This tracking scheme uses the value of URL query parameter to define
a session.  The parameter name is supplied using the @code{ID} directive:

@example
@group
Session
    Type URL
    TTL  300
    ID   "sess"
End
@end group
@end example

In this example, sessions are identified by the @samp{sess} parameter,
The request URL might look like @indicateurl{http://example.org?sess=123}.

@item Cookie
The @code{Cookie} tracking type use a certain cookie to identify
sessions.  The cookie name is given by the @code{ID} directive:

@example
@group
Session
    Type Cookie
    TTL  300
    ID   "sess"
End
@end group
@end example

@item Header
Sessions are identified by the value of HTTP header whose name is
given by the @code{ID} directive, e.g.:

@example
@group
Session
    Type Header
    ID   "X-Session"
    TTL  300
End
@end group
@end example

@item Parm
This is the least useful scheme.  Sessions are identified by HTTP
parameter - a string that appears after a semicolon in the URL, such
as @samp{bar} in @indicateurl{http://foo.com;bar}

@example
@group
Session
    Type PARM
    TTL  300
End
@end group
@end example
@end table

@node Balancer groups
@section Balancer groups
@cindex balancer group
  Backends within each service are grouped in @dfn{balancer groups}.
Each such group is assigned a unique integer @dfn{priority}, which
defines the order in which groups are tried.  When selecting a
backend, a group with the numerically smallest priority is tried first
and a suitable backend is looked up among backends defined in that group,
using one of the balancing strategies discussed above.  If no backend
can be selected (e.g. all backends are unavailable), next group is
tried.  The process continues until either a backend is chosen or
the list of balancer groups is exhausted.

@cindex high availability
  By default, backends declared using the @code{Backend} keyword are
assigned to the balancer group 0.  These are backends used during
normal operation.  Backends declared using the @code{Emergency} keyword
(@pxref{Emergency}) are assigned to the balancer group 65535.  These
backends form a pool of @dfn{high availability} backends, which will
be used if all normal backends fail.

  More backend groups can be added using dynamic backends, discussed
in the next section.

@node Dynamic backends
@section Dynamic backends
@cindex dynamic backends
@cindex backends, dynamic
  Normally, when a backend is declared in configuration file, the
value supplied with its @code{Address} statement is resolved at once
and the resulting IP is associated with the backend.  Such backends
are @dfn{static}.  You can also instruct @command{pound} to resolve
the hostname and create as many backends as are the IP addresses it
resolves to.  Such backends are called @dfn{dynamic}.@footnote{Support for
dynamic backends is enabled at compile time and requires the
@uref{http://www.gnu.org/software/adns, GNU adns library}.  If unsure
whether your @command{pound} binary includes it, inspect the
@command{pound -V} output.}  When a dynamic
backend is requested, the @code{Backend} statement defines a
@dfn{matrix} which will be used as a template to generate actual
backends from the data in DNS.  The TTL value of the DNS record (or
records) defines minimum time to live of the generated backends.  When
it expires, DNS will be queried again and backends recreated
according to the changes in its responses@footnote{If necessary, the TTL
value can be changed using the @code{OverrideTTL} configuration
directive.  @xref{Backend, OverrideTTL}.}.

@cindex @code{A} record, DNS
@cindex @code{AAAA} record, DNS
  In the simplest case, a dynamic backend can be created using
@code{A} or @code{AAAA} DNS records.  If several records correspond to
the hostname defined in the @code{Address} statement, @command{pound}
can either create a single backend for each of them, or select one of
them in round-robin fashion and use it to create a backend.  Rest of
backend parameters (port value, priority, etc.) will be taken from its
matrix declaration.

@cindex @code{SRV} record, DNS
@cindex weight, @code{SRV} record
@cindex priority, @code{SRV} record
  A more advanced way to create dynamic backends is using @code{SRV}
records.  Each @code{SRV} record has four associated parameters: priority,
weight, target and port.  The @dfn{priority} value defines the @command{pound}
balancer group where to put generated backends.  @dfn{Weight} is assigned
as the priority for each generated backend@footnote{Notice, that the
@code{SRV} terminology differs from what @command{pound} uses.  What
is called @i{priority} in @code{SRV} defines the @dfn{weight} of the
backend group for @command{pound}, whereas what is called @i{weight}
in @code{SRV} defines the @dfn{priority} of a backend within a group.
This confusion is due to historical reasons, and it would be hard to
avoid it without breaking backward compatibility.}.
Finally, @dfn{target} is used as hostname to obtain IP addresses for
the backends.  For example, suppose the following DNS records are
defined:

@example
@group
$ORIGIN _tcp.example.org.
; _srv  TTL     SRV     prio    weight  port target.
_proxy  60      SRV     10      40      8081 be0.example.org.
_proxy  60      SRV     10      70      8082 be1.example.org.
_proxy  60      SRV     20      10      8081 ha1.example.org.
_proxy  60      SRV     20      10      8081 ha2.example.org.
@end group
@end example

Assuming each of the target hostnames resolves to one IP address,
these records will produce two balancer groups of two backends each,
and will be roughly equivalent to the following statements:

@example
Backend
        Address "be0.example.org"
        Port 8081
        Priority 40
End
Backend
        Address "be1.example.org"
        Port 8082
        Priority 70
End

Emergency
        Address "ha1.example.org"
        Port 8081
        Priority 10
End
Emergency
        Address "ha2.example.org"
        Port 8081
        Priority 10
End
@end example

@cindex @code{SRV} record, 0 weight
  @emph{Notice}, that an SRV record can have a weight of 0.  This will
translate to @command{pound} backend priority 0, which is normally not
allowed (@pxref{Balancer}).  According to RFC 2782, this is the
preferred way of defining weights where ``there isn't any server
selection to do'', whereas ``[i]n the presence of records containing
weights greater than 0, records with weight 0 should have a very small
chance of being selected''.  @command{Pound} handles this as follows:
if all @code{SRV} records have zero weight, priority of the resulting
backends is set to 1.  This makes sure the backend selection algorithm
works and gives each backend equal chance of being selected. This
translation does not take place, however, if at least one of
@code{SRV} records has a weight greater than 0.  Another way to handle
such records is using the @code{IgnoreSRVWeight} configuration
statement, which is discussed below.

@kwindex Resolve
  To declare backend as dynamic, use a symbolic host name in its
@code{Address} statement and add the @code{Resolve} statement with one
of the following values:

@deffn {Dynamic Resolve} first
Resolve the symbolic host name and use first IP from the DNS response
as the address of the created dynamic backend.  Thus, this type will
produce at most one dynamic backend.
@end deffn

@deffn {Dynamic Resolve} all
Resolve the symbolic host name and create one backend for each address
from the DNS response.  This enables load balancing between created
backends.  Each backend will be assigned the same priority.
@end deffn

@deffn {Dynamic Resolve} srv
Obtain @code{SRV} records for the host name and use them to generate
dynamic backends.  Each record produces new  dynamic backend of
@code{Resolve all} type, which creates regular backends as described
above.  The weight field of the @code{SRV} record is mapped to the priority
field of each generated backend.  The priority field determines the
balancer group where the backend will be hosted.
@end deffn

@kwindex Family
When resolving hostnames, both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses are looked for.
You can select the specific address family using the @code{Family}
statement.  Its allowed values are:

@table @code
@item any
@kwindex any
Use all address families available.  This is the default.

@item inet
@kwindex inet
Use only IPv4 addresses (@code{A} DNS records).

@item inet6
@kwindex inet6
Use only IPv6 addresses (@code{AAAA} DNS records).
@end table

  For example:

@example
@group
Backend
        Address "_proxy._tcp.example.org"
        Resolve srv
        Family any
End
@end group
@end example

@kwindex IgnoreSRVWeight
@cindex @code{SRV} records, overriding weight
@cindex weight override, @code{SRV} records
Notice, that you need not supply @code{Port} statement for dynamic
backends of @code{srv} resolve type.  Normally, you don't need to
supply @code{Priority}, either.  However, you may do so, if you wish
to override the weight settings from @code{SRV} records.  In that
case, inform @code{pound} about your decision using the following
statement in @code{Backend} section:

@example
IgnoreSRVWeight true
@end example

There are several possible scenarios when this may be needed.  One of
them is when all @code{SRV} records have weight of 0 (see above) and your
configuration defines one or more regular backends in the same
balancer group as backends generated by those records.  In that case,
the default priority assigned by @command{pound} to those generated
backends (1) may prove to be too low for adequate balancing.  Using
@code{IgnoreSRVWeight} allows you to fix that.  For example:

@example
Service
        Backend
                Address 192.0.2.15
                Port 80
                Priority 8
        End
        Backend
                Address "_proxy._tcp.example.org"
                Resolve srv
                Family any
                IgnoreSRVWeight true
                Priority 5
        End
End
@end example

In this example, backends generated by @code{SRV} records for
domain @samp{_proxy._tcp.example.org} will be assigned priority 5,
no matter what the actual value of @code{SRV} weight field.

@kwindex RetryInterval
Dynamic backends will be updated periodically, when the TTL of the
corresponding DNS records expires.  If the hostname cannot be resolved
or a DNS failure occurs, next update will be scheduled in 600
seconds after the failure.  This interval can be configured using the
@code{RetryInterval} statement in the @code{Backend} section, or
globally, in the @code{Resolver} section (@pxref{resolver}).

@node Worker model
@chapter Worker model
@kwindex WorkerMinCount
Each incoming request is processed by a specific @dfn{worker}, i.e. a
thread in the running program.  Total number of running workers is
controlled by three configuration parameters.  @code{WorkerMinCount}
defines the minimum number of workers that should always be running
(5, by default).  Another parameter, @code{WorkerMaxCount} sets the
upper limit on the number of running workers (it defaults to 128).

@kwindex WorkerMaxCount
At each given moment, a worker can be in one of two states: @dfn{idle}
or @dfn{active} (processing a request).  If an incoming request
arrives when all running workers are active, and total number of
workers is less than @code{WorkerMaxCount}, a new thread is started and
the new request is handed to it.  If the number of active workers has
already reached maximum, the new request is added to the @dfn{request
queue}, where it will wait for a worker to become available to
process it.

@kwindex WorkerIdleTimeout
The third parameter, @code{WorkerIdleTimeout}, specifies maximum time
a thread is allowed to spend in the idle state.  If a worker
remains idle longer than that and total number of workers is greater
than the allotted minimum (@code{WorkerMinCount}), this idle worker is
terminated.

@node Lua
@chapter Extending @command{pound} functionality with Lua
@cindex Lua
@url{http://lua.org,Lua} is a lightweight extension language developed
at the Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro.  Functions
and modules written in Lua can be used to implement new features in
@command{pound} without the need to modify its sources and recompile
it.@footnote{To check if the binary supports Lua, run @command{pound
-V} and examine its output.}

@cindex lua loading mode
Lua source files can be loaded using two distinct modes:
@dfn{per-thread} and @dfn{global}.  In per-thread mode, each Lua file
is loaded into each worker thread separately.  This is the default.
In global mode sources are loaded only once and exist in one copy,
available for use in all threads.  No matter what mode is used, Lua
sources are read and interpreted only once, at program startup.

@cindex per-thread lua loading
The main advantage of per-thread mode is speed.  Each thread runs its
own copy of Lua interpreter and doesn't have to synchronize its actions
with other threads.  Its disadvantage is a bit higher memory usage.

@cindex global lua loading
@anchor{global lua loading}
Sources loaded in global mode reside in one interpreter, common for
all threads.  Consequently, before calling a Lua function, the thread
must lock the interpreter for its use, and unlock it afterwards.
While the interpreter is in use by a single thread, remaining threads
must wait for it to be released in order to use it.  This results in
certain performance penalty.

Both modes can be used together.  No matter which mode is used, Lua
functions sharing the same mode can use a special global variable to
exchange data between them, if they are called in different stages of
request processing.  This way, for example, a Lua test can pass its
results to the Lua backend.

@menu
* LuaLoad::    Loading Lua sources.
* LuaMatch::   Lua conditionals.
* LuaModify::  Changing requests and responses in Lua.
* Stash::      Sharing data between Lua invocations.
* LuaBackend:: Lua backends.
* Lua API::
@end menu

@node LuaLoad
@section Global Lua Configuration
  Lua sources are loaded from the global @code{Lua} section, using two
statements: @code{Load} and @code{LoadGlobal}.  These take as argument
the name of a Lua source file to parse and load.  As usual, relative
pathnames are looked up in the @ref{include directory}.

The @code{Load} statement loads the file to per-thread Lua
interpreters, while @code{LoadGlobal} loads it to the global one.
Example usage:

@example
@group
Lua
    Load "auth-bearer.lua"
End
@end group
@end example

If the file ends with a @code{return} statement, it is loaded as in
Lua @code{require}.  The return value is then available in Lua global
variable whose name is obtained from the filename using the following
procedure:

@enumerate 1
@item
Remove the @samp{.lua} suffix.

@item
Unless first character is a letter of latin alphabet or underscore,
add underscore at the beginning.

@item
In the resulting string, replace each character other than letter,
digit or underscore with an underscore.
@end enumerate

Thus, if the file @file{auth-bearer.lua} ends with a @code{return},
the returned value will be available in Lua as @code{auth_bearer}.

You can also supply variable name explicitly, as second argument,
e.g.:

@example
@group
Lua
    Load "auth-bearer.lua" "bearer"
End
@end group
@end example

Of course, you can use as many @code{Load} (or @code{LoadGlobal})
statements as there are files you wish to load.

This section can also be used to modify Lua search paths.  Two
statements are provided for this purpose: @code{Path} modifies search
path for Lua source files (@code{package.path}), and @code{CPath}
modifies search path for dynamic libraries (@code{package.cpath}).
Both statements add their argument at the beginning of the
corresponding @code{package} path.  For example:

@example
@group
Lua
    Path "/usr/share/pound/?.lua"
    Load "auth-bearer.lua" "bearer"
End
@end group
@end example

Notice that @code{Path} statement has no effect on where @code{Load}
looks for its argument (it always uses @command{pound} include path
to locate relative file names).  Instead, it affects @code{require}
statements in loaded Lua sources.

@node LuaMatch
@section Lua conditionals

  Lua functions are most commonly used to implement new conditions,
that can be used to select the @code{Service} section to use.  Such
conditions are applied using @code{LuaMatch} statements in
@code{Service} sections.  The @code{LuaMatch} statement takes at least
one argument: the name of Lua function to call.  It can be followed by
any number of string values, which will be passed to the function as
its arguments.  Before being passed to the function, these values
undergo backreference expansion and request accessor interpretation
(@pxref{Request modifications}).

  The first argument can be either an unqualified name, as
@samp{mycond}, or a fully qualified one, as @samp{modname.mycond}.
Use the latter form to call functions defined in modules.

  Information about HTTP request is provided to Lua functions via
the built-in variable @code{http.req}, described in @ref{Lua API}.

  To illustrate the concept, here's the definition of a Lua test that
returns @code{true} if the value of a header named in its first argument
matches any of its remaining arguments, treated as anchored Lua patterns:

@example
@group
function isheader(name, ...)
   local args = @{ ... @}
   for _, pat in ipairs(args) do
      if string.find(http.req.headers[name], "^"..pat.."$") then
         return true
      end
   end
   return false
end
@end group
@end example

Supposing that this function is defined in file @file{isheader.lua},
it can be used as follows:

@example
Lua
    Load "isheader.lua"
End
ListenHTTP
    ...
    Service
        LuaMatch "host" "foo[.]bar" "www[.]fo+[.]bar"
        Backend
            ...
        End
    End
End
@end example

 As a more practical example, the function below implements
@dfn{Bearer} authorization scheme.

@example
local bearer = @{@}
local jwt = require 'jwt'

function bearer.ok(secret)
   -- Read in the Authorization header.
   local bh = http.req.headers['Authorization']
   if bh == nil then
      return false
   end

   -- Check if it starts with "Bearer".
   local n, k = bh:find('%s+')
   if n == nil or bh:sub(1,n-1):lower() ~= 'bearer' then
      return false
   end

   -- Extract the token and parse it.
   local j, err = jwt.parse(bh:sub(k+1))
   if err ~= nil then
      return false
   end

   -- Verify the token.
   if not j:verify(secret) then
      return false
   end

   -- Check expiration time.
   if j.payload.exp ~= nil then
      local exp = tonumber(j.payload.exp)
      if exp == nil then
         return false
      elseif os.time() < j.payload.exp then
         return false
      end
   end

   return true
end

return bearer
@end example

@noindent
@xref{jwt.lua}, for the implementation of the @code{jwt} module.

 The following configuration fragment uses @code{bearer.ok} function
as a condition, to reject requests without a valid bearer token:

@example
@group
Service
    Not LuaMatch "bearer.ok" "secret"
    Rewrite response
        SetHeader "WWW-Authenticate: Bearer realm=\"Restricted access\""
    End
    Error 401
End
@end group
@end example

@node LuaModify
@section Changing requests and responses in Lua
@cindex LuaModify
  The @code{LuaModify} configuration statement instructs
@command{pound} to invoke a Lua function, ignoring its return value.
In other words, the function is called for its side effects,
whatever they are.

  Syntactically, the statement is similar to @code{LuaMatch},
discussed in the previous section: the function name is supplied as
its first parameter and the arguments, if any, as its remaining
parameters.  Only string arguments are allowed.

  @code{LuaModify} can appear anyplace where other request modification
statements are allowed: i.e. in @code{ListenHTTP} (or
@code{ListenHTTPS}), @code{Service}, @code{Match} and @code{Rewrite}
sections.

  Most often this statement is used to modify the incoming
request before sending it out to the backend, or the response before
returning it back to the client.  To do so, the function invoked by
@code{LuaMatch} can use the @code{http} Lua module, discussed in
@ref{lua-http}, in particular its fields @code{http.req} and
@code{http.resp}.

@menu
* Cookie injection::
@end menu

@node Cookie injection
@subsection Cookie Injection
@cindex cookie injection
  Cookie injection is a special technique which ensures that
requests from a client are always forwarded to the same backend, even
if the backend server in question does not provide any mechanism for
session tracking.  It works as follows.  Upon first connection,
@command{pound} adds to the backend response a @code{Set-Cookie}
header with a unique cookie generated for this purpose.  This ensures
that further requests from that client will bear this cookie.  Then,
it will suffice to configure @command{pound} to use that cookie for
session tracking (@pxref{Sessions}), and all subsequent requests from
that client will go to the same backend.

  In this subsection we will show how to implement cookie injection
in Lua using @code{LuaModify}.

  Let's start from the Lua code.  We need a function that,
being invoked with the name of cookie as its argument, will check if
that cookie is present in the request and if not, will create it by
adding a @code{Set-Cookie} header to the response from backend:

@example
function inject(name, ttl)
@end example

Here, @var{name} supplies the name of the cookie to check for, and
@var{ttl} provides its time-to-live in seconds, which is used if the
cookie needs to be set.

Functions for operating on cookies are supplied by the @file{cookie.lua}
module, described in @ref{cookie.lua}.  To generate unique session
identifiers, we will use the
@uref{https://luarocks.org/modules/luau-project/lua-uuid, lua-uuid}
module.

  The resulting Lua module can then be written as follows:

@example
local _M = @{@}

local uuid = require('lua-uuid')
local cookie = require('cookie')

-- Unless cookie @var{name} is already set, create and initialize it
-- to a unique session identifier.  @var{ttl} supplies @code{Max-Age}.
function _M.inject(name, ttl)
   local cookie = cookie.get(name)
   if cookie == nil then
      cookie.set(name, tostring(uuid.new()), ttl)
   end
end

return _M
@end example

  Suppose this program is saved in file @file{mksess.lua}, located in
@command{pound} include path.  First, this program needs to be loaded
to @command{pound}.  This is done in the global @code{Lua} section:

@example
@group
Lua
    Load "mksess.lua"
End
@end group
@end example

  Then, the @code{Service} section which should implement cookie
injection, must be configured to track sessions by the value of a
cookie, and the @code{inject} function must be called on each backend
response.  Suppose the cookie used for session tracking is named
@samp{poundsession}.  Then:

@example
Service
    Session
        Type Cookie
        TTL  300
        ID   "poundsession"
    End
    Rewrite response
        LuaModify "mksess.inject" "poundsession" "300"
    End
    ...
End
@end example

@noindent
Notice, that @var{ttl} argument to @code{mksess.inject} matches that
in the @code{Session} section.

@node Stash
@section Sharing data between Lua invocations
@cindex stash
  Sometimes it is necessary to share data between Lua functions used as
conditions and modifiers in @command{pound} configuration file.  An
obvious way of doing so is using Lua global variables.  This approach,
however, poses one major problem: values stored in globals will
persist not only when processing a single HTTP request, but also
between different HTTP requests, and this can cause undesirable
side effects.

  To avoid this, @command{pound} provides a special built-in variable
@code{stash}.  Its value is a table whose contents persist only while
a singe HTTP request is being processed.  Applications can
fill it with whatever values they like.

  To illustrate its use let's change the @code{bearer} module from
@ref{LuaMatch}, so it can be used to select the service to use based
on JWT claims.  First, the @code{bearer.ok} function should store the
parsed JWT object in stash before returning.  Its last lines will then
look like:

@example
@group
   stash.bearer = j
   return true
end
@end group
@end example

  Then, we implement a new method, which checks if the hostname given
as its argument is listed in one of the JWT claims:

@example
@group
function bearer.urlOK(host)
   return stash.bearer ~= nil and
          stash.bearer.payload['http://' .. host] == true
end
@end group
@end example

  Now this method can be used as a conditional to select the service
to use as shown in the example below:

@example
@group
Service "auth"
    Not LuaMatch "bearer.ok" "secret"
    Rewrite response
        SetHeader "WWW-Authenticate: Bearer realm=\"Restricted access\""
    End
    Error 401
End

Service "foo"
    LuaMatch "bearer.urlOK" "foo.com"
    Backend
        Address 127.0.0.1
        Port 8081
    End
End

Service "bar"
    LuaMatch "bearer.urlOK" "bar.com"
    ...
End
@end group
@end example

The service @samp{auth}, same as in the previous example, verifies
that the request carries a valid bearer token and, if so, saves off
the JWT for further use.  Subsequent services make use of this saved
value to verify if the corresponding claim is true: the service
@samp{foo} is selected if the claim @samp{http://foo.com} is true, and so on.

@node LuaBackend
@section Lua backends
  Lua extensions can also be used to define new backends.  Similarly
to conditions, a function implementing a backend can have an arbitrary
number of arguments.  It is not supposed to return any values, though.
Instead, before returning, it should define the response to be returned to the
client.  It does so by initializing fields of the internal variable
@code{http.resp}:

@table @code
@item code
This field must be assigned the HTTP status code (an integer
value in the range 100 to 599).  If it is not initialized after the
backend function returns, @command{pound} will respond with the
default @samp{internal server error} page.

@item reason
This is a textual reason corresponding to the status code.  This value
is optional.  If not initialized, @command{pound} will use the default value
for the returned status code, if it is one of the codes supported
internally (@pxref{Error definitions}).  Otherwise the reason field
will remain empty.

@item headers
A table of response HTTP headers.

@item body
Response body as a string.
@end table

  Here is an example of Lua backend function.  The function below
can be used to return meaningful error status if the JWT authorization
implemented in previous sections fails.  It supposes that function
@code{bearer.ok}, before returning on error, initializes @code{stash}
fields @samp{error} and @samp{error_description} to the error code and
textual description, correspondingly.

@example
@group
function bearer.error_backend()
   local text = 'Bearer realm="Restricted access"'
   if stash.bearer.error ~= nil then
      text = text .. ', error="' .. stash.bearer.error .. '"'
      if stash.bearer.error_description ~= nil then
         text = text .. ', error_description="' .. stash.bearer.error_description .. '"'
      end
   end

   http.resp.headers['WWW-Authenticate'] = text

   http.resp.code = 401
end
@end group
@end example

To use this backend, we modify the @samp{auth} service as follows:

@example
@group
Service "auth"
    Not LuaMatch "bearer.ok" "secret"
    LuaBackend "bearer.error_backend"
End
@end group
@end example

@node Lua API
@section Lua API

@subheading The @code{pound} module.

@deftypemethod pound string dump (arg)
Dumps the value of its argument in a string form, suitable for using
in Lua chunks.
@end deftypemethod

@defcv {field} pound integer loadctx
This variable is initialized when loading Lua source files to the
ordinal number of the Lua @dfn{state} where the file is being loaded.
For globally loaded sources (@pxref{global lua loading}), this
variable is set to 0.  For per-thread loading, it is set to a positive
integer identifying the state.
@end defcv

@deftypemethod {pound} void log (int @var{prio}, string @var{message})
Outputs @var{message} to the logging channel @var{prio}.
@end deftypemethod

The following constants can be used for @var{prio} argument:

@defcv {Constant} pound DEBUG
Debug messages.
@end defcv

@defcv {Constant} pound INFO
Informative messages.
@end defcv

@defcv {Constant} pound NOTICE
Important notices.
@end defcv

@defcv {Constant} pound WARNING
Warning messages.
@end defcv

@defcv {Constant} pound ERR
Errors.
@end defcv

@defcv {Constant} pound CRIT
Critical errors.
@end defcv

@defcv {Constant} pound ALERT
Serious alerts.
@end defcv

@defcv {Constant} pound EMERG
Emergency messages
@end defcv

@deftypemethod pound integer tid ()
Returns identifier of the current @code{pound} thread.
@end deftypemethod

@anchor{gcall}
@defmethod pound gcall (string @var{func}, ...)
Call function @var{func} defined in a globally-loaded Lua module,
passing it the remained arguments.  Return whatever values @var{func}
returns.

This function makes it possible for a function in a per-thread module
to invoke a function from global context.  Notice the following
limitations:

@enumerate 1
@item
As for any function from globally-loaded module, the global Lua state
will be locked until @var{func} returns.

@item
Types of arguments that can be passed to @var{func} and returned from
it are limited to the following: @code{nil}, boolean, number, string,
and table.  In the latter case, the same restriction applies to keys
and values of the table.  Besides, tables cannot contain cyclic
references.

@item
Calling this function from a globally-loaded module is also allowed.
It is equivalent to calling @code{@var{func}(...)}.
@end enumerate
@end defmethod

@anchor{lua-http}
@subheading The @code{http} module.

This built-in module contains variables and methods describing the
HTTP request being handled.

@deftypemethod http table req
Returns a table describing the request.  This is a read-only table,
whose fields and methods are described below.
@end deftypemethod

@deftypecv {Field} req string method
HTTP method used in the request.
@end deftypecv


@deftypecv {Field} req string line
Request line, i.e. part of the request between the method and HTTP
version designator.
@end deftypecv

@deftypecv {Field} req string url
URL part of the request.
@end deftypecv

@deftypecv {Field} req string path
Pathname part of the request.
@end deftypecv

@deftypecv {Field} req table version
HTTP version of the request.  Used in string context, returns version
as a string:

@example
tostring(http.req.version) @result{} "1.1"
@end example

Two variables are provided to access version parts:

@deftypecv {Field} version integer major
Major part or the version.
@end deftypecv

@deftypecv {Field} version integer minor
Minor part or the version.
@end deftypecv
@end deftypecv

@deftypecv {Field} req table query
Query part of the request.  Converted to string, returns the query in
full:

@example
tostring(http.req.query) @result{} "t=history&r1=10"
@end example

Accessed as table, returns values of parameters used as keys:

@example
@group
http.req.query['t'] @result{} "history"
http.req.query.r1 @result{} "10"
@end group
@end example
@end deftypecv

@anchor{http.req.headers}
@deftypecv {Field} req table headers
Returns headers of the request.  Converted to string, returns all
headers as a (multiline) string, terminated with a newline.  Indexed
as a table, returns values of fields used as keys.

@example
@group
tostring(http.req.headers) @result{} "Host: example.net\nContent-Type:text/plain\n"
http.req.headers['Host'] @result{} "example.net"
@end group
@end example
@end deftypecv

For functions invoked from @code{LuaBackend} or Lua directives used
in @code{Rewrite response} context, the @code{http}
module provides methods for examining and updating the response.

@deftypecv Field http table resp
A table describing the response.  It is a read-write table.
Assigning to its fields modifies the response that will be sent out by
@code{pound} when the @code{LuaBackend} function returns.
@end deftypecv

@anchor{http.resp.code}
@deftypecv Field resp integer code
HTTP status code of the response.  An integer number in the range
@code{[100,599]}.  The @code{LuaBackend} function must set this field/
@end deftypecv

@deftypecv Field resp string reason
Textual reason describing the response.  Setting it is optional.  If
not set, and the @code{resp.code} is set to one of the values
supported by @command{pound} (@pxref{Error definitions}), the standard
reason will be used instead.
@end deftypecv

@deftypecv {Field} resp table headers
Headers of the response.  When read, these behave similarly to request
headers, described above (@pxref{http.req.headers}).  Setting this field to
@code{nil} removes all headers.  Setting it to a table, fills all
headers from it.  Otherwise, each header can be set separately, as

@example
http.resp.headers['Host'] = "example.org"
@end example
@end deftypecv

@anchor{http.resp.body}
@deftypecv Field resp string body
The request body.
@end deftypecv

@subheading The @code{stash} table

@deftypevr {Lua variable} table stash
This global variable can be used to exchange data between Lua
functions called within the same Lua @dfn{state}, but invoked from
different @command{pound} handlers.  For example, a test invoked by
@code{LuaMatch} directive can leave there some data for use by the backend
(@code{LuaBackend}).

Upon receiving a new HTTP request, this table is guaranteed to be
empty.  The values stored in it persist until the response is sent.

Notice, that @code{stash} is unique for each Lua state, so that it
cannot be used to pass data from functions loaded globally to
per-thread ones, and vice versa.  @xref{gcall}, for a ways to
interface between local and global contexts.
@end deftypevr

@node Logging
@chapter Logging
@cindex Logging
 @command{Pound} can send its diagnostic messages to standard error,
syslog, or to both.

@kwindex LogFacility
@cindex syslog facility
@cindex facility, syslog
 Upon startup, while the configuration file is being parsed, the
diagnostics goes to the standard error.  Once it switches to the
operation mode and starts serving requests, diagnostic output is
switched to syslog.  The syslog facility to use is configured via
the @code{LogFacility} configuration directive.  By default,
@samp{daemon} is used.

 When running in foreground mode, the @option{-e} command line option
instructs @command{pound} to use standard error for logging, thus
overriding the settings from the configuration file.

@kwindex LogLevel
@cindex @code{err}, syslog facility
@cindex @code{LOG_ERR}
@cindex @code{notice}, syslog facility
@cindex @code{LOG_NOTICE}
 Normally, @command{pound} is not very loquacious in logging: only
errors and exceptional conditions are reported.  Messages concerning
@command{pound} itself are reported to syslog facility @code{err}.
Messages that describe exceptional conditions detected when serving
requests are reported to facility @code{notice}.  These latter have
the following format:

@example
pound: (@var{tid}): @var{client-ip}: "@var{request}": @var{message}
or
pound: (@var{tid}): e@var{NNN}: @var{client-ip}: "@var{request}": @var{message}
@end example

@noindent
where:

@table @var
@item tid
Thread identifier.

@item NNN
Optional three-digit HTTP status code.

@item client-ip
IP address of the client.

@item request
HTTP request being served.

@item message
Message text.
@end table

If the condition being reported concerns the backend, then the IP
address of the backend is included as well, e.g.@footnote{These
example messages are split in two lines for readability}:

@example
pound: (7fcb33924640): 192.0.20.3 => 10.0.0.1:8081:
        "POST /upload HTTP/1.1": error writing to backend
@end example

The @samp{=>} marker between IP addresses indicates flow direction:
from @command{pound} to backend.  If an error occurs while
transferring response from backend to client, it is indicated by
@samp{<=}, as in:

@example
pound: (7fcb33924640): 192.0.20.3 <= 10.0.0.1:8081:
        "POST /upload HTTP/1.1": response read error
@end example

Additionally, @command{pound} can be instructed to log each processed
request.  These @dfn{access logs} are emitted for each processed
request @emph{after a response was sent back to the client}, and go to
the syslog facility @code{info}.

Such additional logging is configured using two directives:
@code{LogLevel} and @code{LogFormat}.  The @code{LogLevel} directive
can appear either in listener scope, in which case it affects only
this particular listener, or in global scope, where it affects all
listeners that don't configure it on their own.  The value of this
directive can be either an integer number in range 0 through 5
(inclusive), or a quoted string.  Numeric value requests one of the
@dfn{built-in log formats}.  String value refers either to a built-in
format name, or to a user-defined format name.

The built-in formats are:

@table @asis
@item 0
@itemx null
@kwindex null
No request logging at all.

@item 1
@itemx regular
@kwindex regular
For each request, its source address, request line and response status
are logged.

@item 2
@itemx extended
@kwindex extended
In addition to the above, the selected service and backend are shown.

@item 3
@itemx vhost_combined
@kwindex vhost_combined
Detailed request logging using Apache-style @dfn{Combined} log format.

@item 4
@itemx combined
@kwindex combined
Same as above, but without virtual host information.

@item 5
@itemx detailed
@kwindex detailed
Same as @samp{combined}, with additional information about the
selected service and backend.
@end table

@anchor{log format}
@cindex custom log format
@cindex log format, user-defined
@kwindex LogFormat
 If the string argument to @code{LogLevel} is not one of the above, it
must refer to the name of a @dfn{custom format}, defined earlier using
the @code{LogFormat} statement.  This statement takes two string arguments:
the name to be assigned to the new format, and its definition.

The @dfn{format definition} is a character string composed of ordinary
characters (not @samp{%}), which are copied unchanged to the resulting
log message, and conversion specifications, each of which are replaced
by a corresponding piece of information about the request or reply.

Conversion specifications are single characters prefixed with a
percent sign.  Depending on the specification, an optional
@dfn{conversion argument} in curly brackets may appear between
@samp{%} and conversion character.

The following conversion characters are defined:

@deffn {Format specifier} %%
Replaced with the percent sign.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %a
@anchor{%a}
Originator IP address of the request.  If the request contains
@code{X-Forwarded-For} header and @code{TrustedIP} ACL is
defined, the value of the header is consulted to obtain the IP
address.  The value must be a comma-delimited list of intermediate
user-agent IP addresses.  To determine the actual user-agent IP, the
list is traversed from right to left, until an IP is found that is not
listed in @code{TrustedIP} ACL.

If @code{X-Forwarded-For} is not present, or @code{TrustedIP}
is not defined, or the above algorithm does not return an IP address,
@code{%a} expands to the actual remote IP address the request came from
(same as @code{%h}).

The @code{TrustedIP} ACL can be defined in global scope, or in
@code{ListenHTTP} (@code{ListenHTTPS}) section, or in @code{Service}
section.  Most-specific ACL overrides least-specific ones, that is
a @code{TrustedIP} defined in @code{Service} will be used, if it is
defined.  If not, the one defined in listener will be used, etc.
The syntax of the @code{TrustedIP} statement is the same as that of
@code{ACL}, i.e.

@example
TrustedIP "@var{name}"
@end example

@noindent
refers to the named ACL @var{name} (which must be defined earlier,
@pxref{ACL}),

@example
@group
TrustedIP
  "@var{cidr0}"
  "@var{cidr1}"
  ...
End
@end group
@end example

@noindent
defines the list of trusted IPs in place, and

@example
@group
TrustedIP -file "@var{filename}"
TrustedIP -filewatch "@var{filename}"
@end group
@end example

@noindent
reads CIDR definitions from file @var{filename} (@xref{File-based
Conditions}, for a discussion of the difference between @option{-file}
and @option{-filewatch}).

If needed, the @code{ForwardedHeader} statement may be used to declare
the name of the header to use instead of @code{X-Forwarded-For}.  As
@code{TrustedIP}, this statement can appear in global, listener, or in
service scope.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %A
Local IP address of the listener.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %B
Size of response in bytes, excluding headers.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %b
Same as @samp{%B}, but in @dfn{CLF} format, i.e. a dash is used when
response size is zero.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %D
The time taken to serve the request, in microseconds.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %h
Client IP address of the request.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %H
The request protocol.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %@{@var{hdr}@}i
The contents of @samp{@var{hdr}:} header line in the request.  Changes
made by header modification directives affect this.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %@{@var{hdr}@}I
Same as @samp{%i}, except that if no such header is present in the
request, a dash is substituted.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %l
Single dash.  This specifier is reserved for future use.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %@{@var{obj}@}L
Location of the @command{pound} object that is involved in handling
the request.  Valid values for @var{obj} are: @samp{listener},
@samp{service}, and @samp{backend}.

The location gives position in the configuration file where the object
was defined, and is formatted as

@example
@var{name}:@var{ln1}.@var{col1}-@var{ln2}.@var{col2}
@end example

@noindent
where @var{name} is the configuration file name, @var{ln1} and @var{col1}
are line and column where the object definition begins, @var{ln2} and
@var{col2} are line and column where it ends.  Line and column numbers
start with 1.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %m
The request method.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %@{@var{obj}@}N
Name of @command{pound} object that is involved in handling the
request.  Valid values for @var{obj} are: @samp{listener},
@samp{service}, and @samp{backend}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %p
Port number of the listener serving the request.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %P
Thread ID of the serving thread.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %q
The query string (prepended with a @samp{?}) if it exists, otherwise an
empty string.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %r
First line of request.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %s
Response status code.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %>s
First line of the response.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %t
Time the request was received, in the format
@samp{[18/Sep/2011:19:18:28 -0400]}.  The last number indicates the
timezone offset from UTC.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %@{@var{format}@}t
Time the request was received, in the format specified by the argument
(@pxref{Time and Date Formats}).  If the format starts with
@samp{begin:} (default) the time is taken at the beginning of the
request processing.  If it starts with @samp{end:}, it is the time
after the response from the backend has been sent back to the
requester.  In addition to @code{strftime} formats, the following
specifications are recognized:

@table @asis
@item sec
Number of seconds since the Epoch.
@item msec
Number of milliseconds since the Epoch.
@item usec
Number of microseconds since the Epoch.
@item msec_frac
Millisecond fraction of the time.
@item usec_frac
Microsecond fraction of the time.
@end table
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %T
The time taken to process the request, in seconds.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %@{@var{unit}@}T
The time taken to process the request, in a time unit given by
@var{unit}.  Valid units are @samp{ms} for milliseconds, @samp{us} for
microseconds, @samp{s} for seconds, and @samp{f} for seconds with
fractional part.  Using @samp{s} gives the same result as @samp{%T}
without any format; using @samp{us} gives the same result as @samp{%D}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %u
Remote user if the request was authenticated.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %U
The URL path requested.  This is affected by request modification
directives.
@end deffn

@deffn {Format specifier} %v
Hostname used in the request (from the @samp{Host} header, without
port number).
@end deffn

 The table below describes the built-in formats in terms of format
definitions:

@table @asis
@item 0
@itemx null
@kwindex null, built-in format
@example
""
@end example

@item 1
@itemx regular
@kwindex regular, built-in format
@example
"%a %r - %>s"
@end example

@item 2
@itemx extended
@kwindex extended, built-in format
@example
"%a %r - %>s (%@{Host@}i/%@{service@}N -> %@{backend@}N) %@{f@}T sec"
@end example

@item 3
@itemx vhost_combined
@kwindex vhost_combined, built-in format
@example
"%v:%p %a %l %u %t \"%r\" %s %b \"%@{Referer@}i\" \"%@{User-Agent@}i\""
@end example

@item 4
@itemx combined
@kwindex combined, built-in format
@example
"%a %l %u %t \"%r\" %s %b \"%@{Referer@}i\" \"%@{User-Agent@}i\""
@end example

@item 5
@itemx detailed
@kwindex detailed, built-in format
(Split in two lines for readability)
@example
"%v:%p %a %l %u %t \"%r\" %s %b \"%@{Referer@}i\" \"%@{User-Agent@}i\"
(%@{service@}N -> %@{backend@}N) %@{f@}T sec"
@end example
@end table

@node Configuration
@chapter Configuration
 A configuration file provides @command{pound} with the information
necessary for performing its tasks.  Some configuration file
statements can be overridden from the command line.

@menu
* Lexical structure::
* Syntax::
* String Expansions::
* Global directives::
* File inclusion::
* Logging configuration::
* Management interface::
* Timeouts::
* ListenHTTP::
* ListenHTTPS::
* Service::
* resolver::
@end menu

@node Lexical structure
@section Lexical structure
@cindex lexical structure of the configuration file
 Lexically, the file contains tokens of three types: keywords, values,
and separators.  Blanks, tabs, newlines and comments, collectively called
@dfn{white space} are ignored except as they serve to separate
tokens.  Some white space is required to separate otherwise adjacent
keywords and values.

@cindex comments, configuration file
 @dfn{Comments} may appear anywhere where white space may appear in the
configuration file.  A comment begins with a hash sign (@samp{#}) and
continues to the end of the line.

@cindex keywords, configuration file
 A @dfn{keyword} is a sequence of ASCII letters, digits and
underscores that begins with an ASCII letter or underscore.  Keywords
are always case-insensitive.

@cindex values, configuration file
 There are three kinds of @dfn{values}: numeric values (or
@dfn{numbers}), boolean values, quoted strings, and IP addresses.

@table @dfn
@cindex numbers, configuration file
@item Numbers
 A @dfn{numeric value} is a sequence of decimal digits.

@cindex boolean value, configuration file
@item Booleans
 A @dfn{boolean} is one of the following: @samp{yes}, @samp{true},
@samp{on} or @samp{1}, meaning @dfn{true}, and @samp{no},
@samp{false}, @samp{off}, @samp{0} meaning @dfn{false}.

@cindex quoted string
@cindex escape character
@item Strings
@anchor{Strings}
 A @dfn{quoted string} or @dfn{string}, for short, is a sequence of
characters enclosed in a pair of double quotes.  A backslash
(@samp{\}) appearing within a string acts as an @dfn{escape
character}: if it is followed by a double-quote or another backslash,
it forces the character that follows it to be treated as an ordinary
one.  For example:

@example
"string with \" character"
@end example

 A backslash followed by any character other than @samp{"} or @samp{\}
is removed and a warning to that effect is output.  For example, the
following statement:

@example
user "r\oot"
@end example

@noindent
appearing at line 1 of file @file{pound.cfg} will result in the
following message:

@example
pound.cfg:1.8: unrecognized escape character
@end example

@noindent
and will be treated as

@example
user "root"
@end example

@cindex IP address
@item IP addresses
 IP addresses are IPv4 or IPv6 addresses in numeric form, or hostnames.
@end table

@node Syntax
@section Syntax
 Syntactically, @command{pound} configuration is a sequence of
statements of two kinds: simple and compound.

@cindex simple statement
@cindex statement, simple
@cindex directive
 A @dfn{simple statement} or @dfn{directive} consists of a keyword
followed by a value, located on a single line.  For example:

@example
user "proxy"
@end example

There are some simple statements that don't take any value and thus
consist only of a keyword, e.g.

@example
HTTPS
@end example

@cindex compound statement
@cindex statement, compound
@cindex section
 A @dfn{compound statement} or @dfn{section} encloses one or more
other statements (both simple or compound).  It begins with a keyword,
optionally followed by a value, both located on a single line (similar
to simple directives), followed by any number of subordinate
statements, and ends with a keyword @code{End} on a line by itself.
For example:

@example
@group
Control
    Socket "/run/pound.sock"
    Mode 660
    ChangeOwner true
End
@end group
@end example

Unless specified otherwise, directives may appear in any order.

@node String Expansions
@section String Expansions
 String arguments to some configuration statements undergo several
@dfn{expansions} before use.  The @dfn{backreference expansion}
replaces special notations in the string called @dfn{backreferences}
with corresponding parts of the request recently matched against a
regular expression.  The @dfn{request accessor interpretation}
inserts some fragments of the request URL into the string.

These expansions are discussed in detail below.

@menu
* Backreference Expansion::
* Request Accessors::
@end menu

@node Backreference Expansion
@subsection Backreference expansion
Backreference is a construct that refers to a @dfn{parenthesized
group} within a regular expression matched by one of service
matching directives (@pxref{Service Selection Statements}).  During
backreference expansion, each occurrence of such construct is replaced
with the actual value of that parenthesized group.

Syntactically, backreferences can take two forms.  The construct
@code{$@var{n}}, where @var{n} is a decimal number, refers to
@var{n}th parenthesized subexpression of the most recently matched
statement, and the construct @code{$@var{n}(@var{m})} refers to
@var{n}th parenthesized subexpression in the @var{m}th recently matched
statement.  Numbering of subexpressions starts at 1 (@code{$0} refers
to entire matching string).  Numbering of matches starts at 0.

For example, given the following statements

@example
@group
Host -re "www\\.(.+)"
Header -re -icase "^Content-Type: *(.*)"
Path "^/static(/.*)?"
@end group
@end example

@noindent
@code{$1} refers to the subgroup of @code{Path}, @code{$1(1)} refers to that of
@code{Header}, and @code{$1(2)} to that of @code{Host}.

@cindex tagged statements
Conditional statements can also be tagged (@pxref{tag}).  When referring to a
subexpression in such a statement, the form @code{$@var{n}(@var{t})}
can be used, where @var{t} is the tag.  For example, after tagging the
statements in the example above:

@example
@group
Host -tag "host" -re "www\\.(.+)"
Header -tag "type" -re -icase "^Content-Type: *(.*)"
Path -tag "dir" "^/static(/.*)?"
@end group
@end example

@noindent
the corresponding strings can be referred to as: @code{$1} or
@code{$1(dir)}, @code{$1(type)}, and @code{$1(host)},
correspondingly.

Curly braces may be used to avoid incorrectly parsing text fragment
that follows the reference as being its part.  This is useful if the
reference is immediately followed by a decimal digit or opening
parenthesis, as in: @samp{$@{1@}(text)}.

To insert a literal dollar or percent sign in the string, use
@samp{$$} or @samp{$%}, correspondingly.

@node Request Accessors
@subsection Request Accessor Interpretation

@dfn{Request accessor} is a syntactical construct of the form:

@example
%[@var{name}]
@end example

@noindent
where @var{name} denotes a part of the incoming request to access and
square brackets are part of the construct.  Accessors are interpreted and
replaced with the value of the corresponding part of the request.
Some accessors take an argument, which is specified after accessor
name and is delimited from it by one or more whitespace characters.

The following accessors are defined:

@deffn {Accessor} url
Request URL.
@end deffn

@deffn {Accessor} path
Request path.
@end deffn

@deffn {Accessor} query
Query part.
@end deffn

@deffn {Accessor} param @var{name}
The value of the query parameter @var{name}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Accessor} header @var{name}
The value of HTTP header @var{name}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Accessor} host
Hostname part of the @var{Host} header.  If the latter
does not include port number, it is equivalent to
@code{%[header host]}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Accessor} port
If the value of the @code{Host} header includes port number,
@samp{%[port]} expands to port number with the leading colon
character.  Otherwise, it expands to empty string.
@end deffn

@deffn {Accessor} remoteip @var{fwd}
Expands to the request originator IP address.  If @var{fwd} is 0,
expands to its real IP, otherwise expands to the IP determined from
the @code{X-Forwarded-For} (or similar) header.  @xref{%a}, for details.
@end deffn

@node Global directives
@section Global directives
 Global directives configure the program operation as a whole.  They
may appear anywhere at the global scope of the configuration file,
although it is customary for them to be at its start.

@menu
* Runtime directives::
* Worker Settings::
* Proxy Tuning::
* SSL Settings::
* Regexp Settings::
* ACL definition::
* Condition::
* Lua Settings::
@end menu

@node Runtime directives
@subsection Runtime directives

@deffn {Global directive} Daemon @var{bool}
@anchor{Daemon}
When set to @samp{true} (the default), @command{pound} will detach
itself from the controlling terminal after successful parsing of the
configuration file and continue operating in the background.

When set to @samp{false}, @command{pound} will continue operating in
the foreground.

This setting can be overridden by the @option{-F} and @option{-e}
command line options.
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} Group "@var{group_name}"
Sets the group @command{pound} will run as.  If not set, the primary
group of the user (as set by the @code{User} directive) will be used.
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} PIDFile "@var{filename}"
@anchor{PIDFile}
Sets the name of the file where to store program PID.  This can be
also be set from command line, using @option{-p} command line option
(@pxref{Usage}).

Notice the following:

@enumerate 1
@item
Setting this directive to @samp{-} (a dash) turns creation of
a PID file off.

@item
When running with a supervisor, this file holds PID of the supervisor
process.  Otherwise, it holds PID of the main @comment{pound} process.
This means it is always suitable for signalling the program using the
traditional @command{kill `cat filename`} technique.

@item
Before shutting down, @command{pound} removes this file.  However,
it may fail to do so if it switches to privileges of another user
after startup (at least one of @code{User} or @code{Group} are set in
the configuration file) and the file is stored in a directory whose
permissions forbid write access for that user.
@end enumerate
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} Supervisor @var{bool}
When running in daemon mode, start a @dfn{supervisor} process.  This
process, in turn, will start main @command{pound} process and will
further monitor it, restarting it if it fails.

The default is @code{true}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} LineBufferSize @var{n}
@anchor{line buffer}
Sets the line buffer size.  Line buffer is used when reading request
line, backend response status line, and header fields in both requests
and responses.  Thus, this value limits the maximum length allowed for
these parts of HTTP messages.  By default, it is set to the internal
buffer size (4096 bytes, configurable at compile time using the
@code{--with-maxbuf} option)@footnote{To check the value your
@command{pound} is compiled with, run @command{pound -V}}, and it
cannot be less than that default.

Incoming requests with request line longer than that limit will get
a 414 (@samp{URI Too Long}) response.  Requests with one of header
fields longer than that will be responded with 413 (@samp{Payload Too
Large}) code.

This global setting can be overridden for each particular listener
(@pxref{Listener-specific limits}).
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} RootJail "@var{directory}"
If this directive is present, @command{pound} will use the system
@code{chroot} call to set the root directory of the process to that
specified by @var{directory}.  After that, the program won't be able
to access any files outside that directory.

Before chrooting, @command{pound} makes the necessary preparations to
be able to access the files it needs during operation, in particular
user databases supplied with the @code{BasicAuth} statements
(@pxref{Authentication}), and static file directories (@xref{ACME}, and
@pxref{SendFile}).
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} User "@var{user_name}"
Configures the user @command{pound} will run as.
@end deffn

@node Worker Settings
@subsection Worker Settings

@deffn {Global directive} WorkerMinCount @var{n}
Sets minimum number of worker threads that must always be running.
The default is 5.  @xref{Worker model}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} WorkerMaxCount @var{n}
Sets maximum number of worker threads.  The default is 128.
@xref{Worker model}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} WorkerIdleTimeout @var{n}
Sets idle timeout for a worker thread, in seconds.  Default is 30 seconds.
@xref{Worker model}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} Threads @var{n}
This statement, retained for backward compatibility with previous
versions of pound, is equivalent to:

@example
WorkerMinCount @var{n}
WorkerMaxCount @var{n}
@end example
@end deffn

@node Proxy Tuning
@subsection Proxy Tuning Directives

@deffn {Global directive} BackendStats @var{bool}
@anchor{BackendStats}
Whether to enable backend statistics collection.  Backend statistics
consists of the following values:

@enumerate 1
@item Total number of requests processed by this backend.
@item Average time per request.
@item Standard deviation of the average time per request.
@end enumerate

If enabled, these values are made available via @command{poundctl}
(@pxref{poundctl list}) and telemetry output (@pxref{Metrics}).
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} Balancer @var{algo}
Sets the request balancing algorithm to use.  Allowed values for
@var{algo} are:

@table @asis
@item random
Use weighted random balancing algorithm.

@item iwrr
Use interleaved weighted round robin balancing.
@end table

@xref{Balancer}, for a detailed discussion of these algorithms.

The @code{Balancer} statement in global scope applies to all @code{Service}
definitions in the file that don't contain @code{Balancer} definitions
of their own.
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} HeaderOption @var{opt} ...
Sets default header addition options.  One or more arguments are
allowed, each being one of:

@table @code
@item none
Disable additional headers.

@kwindex forwarded
@item forwarded
Add @code{X-Forwarded-For}, @code{X-Forwarded-Proto}, and
@code{X-Forwarded-Port} headers.

@kwindex ssl
@item ssl
Pass information about SSL certificates in a set of @code{X-SSL-*}
headers.  This will add the following headers:

@table @asis
@item X-SSL-Cipher
SSL version followed by a slash and active cipher algorithm.

@item X-SSL-Certificate
The full client certificate (multi-line).

@item X-SSL-Issuer
Information about the certificate issuer (CA).

@item X-SSL-Subject
Information about the certificate owner.

@item X-SSL-notAfter
End of validity date for the certificate.

@item X-SSL-notBefore
Start of validity date for the certificate.

@item X-SSL-serial
Certificate serial number (in decimal).
@end table
@end table

@kwindex no-forwarded
@kwindex no-ssl
The options @code{forwarded}, and @code{ssl} can be prefixed with
@code{no-} to disable their effect.

The default is:

@example
HeaderOption forwarded ssl
@end example

This setting can be overridden for a particular listener using the
@code{HeadOption} within it.
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} CombineHeaders
HTTP protocol allows for certain headers to appear in the message
multiple times.  Namely, multiple headers with the same header name  are
permitted if that header field is defined as a comma-separated list.

The standard specifies that such fields can be combined in a single
header line, by appending each subsequent field value to the combined
field value in order, separated by a comma.

The @code{CombineHeaders} statement declares names of the headers to
which @command{pound} is to apply this operation.  Each header name
should be listed on a separate line, enclosed in double-quotes.  The
keyword @code{End} on a line by itself ends the statement.  E.g.:

@example
@group
CombineHeaders
    "Accept"
    "Allow"
    "Cache-Control"
End
@end group
@end example

The @code{include} statement (@pxref{File inclusion}) can be used in
@code{CombineHeaders} statement.

@findex mvh.inc
@command{Pound} distribution includes file @file{mvh.inc},
which declares all known multiple-value headers in a form suitable for
inclusion to @file{pound.cfg}.  This file is installed in the package
data directory, so that in order to use it, it suffices to add the
following to the configuration file:

@example
@group
CombineHeaders
    Include "mvh.inc"
End
@end group
@end example
@end deffn

@node SSL Settings
@subsection SSL Settings

@deffn {Global directive} SSLEngine "@var{name}"
Use an OpenSSL hardware acceleration card called @var{name}.  Available
only if OpenSSL-engine is installed on your system.
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} ECDHcurve "@var{name}"
Use the named curve for elliptical curve encryption.
@end deffn

@node Regexp Settings
@subsection Regular Expression Settings

@deffn {Global directive} RegexType @var{type}
Sets the type of regular expressions to use in conditional
statements.  Allowed values for @var{type} are: @code{posix} and
@code{pcre} (or @code{perl}), case-insensitive.  The latter requires
compilation time support.

The selected regular expression type remains in effect for all conditionals
that follow this statement, until next @code{RegexType} statement or
end of the configuration file, whichever occurs first.

Regular expression type can be set individually for a directive, using
the @code{-pcre} or @code{-posix} option (@pxref{conditional-option}).

@xref{Regular Expressions}, for a detailed discussion.
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} IgnoreCase @var{bool}
Ignore case when doing regex matching (default: @samp{false}). This
directive sets the default for the following conditionals: @code{URL},
@code{Path}, @code{QueryParam}, @code{Query}, @code{StringMatch}, as
well as for the @code{DeleteHeader} modification directive.  Its value
can be overridden for specific services.

This statement is deprecated and will be removed in future versions.
Please, use the @option{-icase} option to the conditional
instead (@pxref{conditional-option}).
@end deffn

@node ACL definition
@subsection ACL Definition

@deffn {Global directive} ACL "@var{name}"
Define a @dfn{named access control list}.  An @dfn{ACL} is a
list of network addresses in CIDR notation.  Once defined, the ACL can
be used in @code{Service} statements to limit access to resources
(@pxref{ACL reference}).

The statement has two forms: immediate and file reference ACL.  In
@dfn{immediate} form, the CIDR list follows the @code{ACL} line and
is terminated with an @code{End} directive on a line by itself.  Each
non-empty line contains a CIDR enclosed in double quotes.  Comments
and @code{Include} statements (@pxref{File inclusion}) are allowed.
For example:

@example
@group
ACL "secure"
   "192.0.2.0/26"
   "203.0.113.0/24"
End
@end group
@end example

The syntax of named @dfn{file reference} ACL is:

@example
ACL "@var{name}" -file "@var{filename}"
@end example

@noindent
or

@example
ACL "@var{name}" -filewatch "@var{filename}"
@end example

If @var{filename} is relative, it is looked up in the @ref{include directory}.
The syntax of the file is similar to the described above, except that
CIDRs need not be quoted and @code{Include} statements are not
allowed.  The form with @code{-file} reads the file contents once, at
the program startup.  The one with @code{-filewatch} reads it and then
monitors that file for changes.  @xref{File-based Conditions}, for a
detailed discussion.
@end deffn

@node Condition
@subsection Condition
@kwindex Condition

@deffn {Global directive} Condition "@var{name}"
Defines a @dfn{detached condition} identified by @var{name} (which
must be unique among conditions defined in the configuration file).
This line must be followed by one or more conditional directives
(@pxref{conditionals}) and terminated by an @code{End}.
@end deffn

For example:

@example
@group
Condition "a"
    ACL -file "secure"
    Path -beg "/admin/"
End
@end group
@end example

Detached conditions can be evaluated in @code{Service} and
@code{Rewrite} statements using the @code{Eval} statement (@pxref{Eval
statement}).  For a detailed discussion, see @ref{Detached Conditions}.

@node Lua Settings
@subsection The @code{Lua} statement

@kwindex Lua
Global Lua settings reside in @code{Lua} section:

@example
@group
Lua
   ...
End
@end group
@end example

Following statements are allowed for use in this section:

@deffn {Lua directive} Load "@var{filename}"
Load Lua source file @var{filename} in per-thread mode.  Unless
specified as an absolute pathname, the file will be looked in the
@dfn{include directory} (@pxref{include directory}).
@end deffn

@deffn {Lua directive} LoadGlobal "@var{filename}"
Load Lua source file @var{filename} in global mode.  Unless
specified as an absolute pathname, the file will be looked in the
@dfn{include directory} (@pxref{include directory}).
@end deffn

@deffn {Lua directive} Path "@var{path}"
Prepend @var{path} to the Lua @code{package.path}.  This is a
semicolon-delimited list of patterns that specifies where the Lua
@code{require} statement searches for Lua sources.  In patterns, the
question mark serves as a wildcard and will be replaced by the name of
the module being loaded.  The path is scanned from left to right.

Multiple @code{Path} statements are allowed.  After parsing, the
values from all @code{Path} statements are joined into a single
prefix, which is then prepended to the defaulut value of
@code{package.path}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Lua directive} CPath "@var{path}"
Similar to @code{Path} (see above), but modifies @code{package.cpath},
a variable that controls where Lua looks for shared libraries.
@end deffn

@node File inclusion
@section File inclusion

@deffn {Global directive} Include "@var{file}"
Include @var{file} as if it were part of the configuration file.  If
@var{file} is a relative file name, it will be looked in the @dfn{include
directory} (see below).  If @var{file} is a shell globbing pattern,
all regular files matching that pattern will be included, in
lexicographical order.

This directive is allowed both at topmost level and in any subsections
of the configuration file.
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} IncludeDir "@var{dir}"
@anchor{include directory}
Set the @dfn{include directory}, i.e. the directory where
@command{pound} looks for relative file names that appear in other
configuration directives: @code{Include}, @code{BasicAuth},
@code{ErrorFile} (or @code{Err400} through @code{Err503}), as well as
in the argument to @option{-file} (@option{-filewatch}) option in
conditionals (@xref{-file}, and @pxref{File-based Conditions}).

This directive can appear multiple times.  In that case, the directory
set by each @code{IncludeDir} remains in effect until next one
redefines it.

The default value is the system configuration directory as set at
compile time (you can check its value in the output of @command{pound
-V}).  This initial value can be changed in the command line using the
@option{-W include-dir=@var{dir}} command line option or reset to the
current working directory using the @option{-W no-include-dir} option
(@pxref{Usage}).
@end deffn

@node Logging configuration
@section Logging configuration
@deffn {Global directive} LogFacility @var{name}
@deffnx {Global directive} LogFacility -
Sets the @command{syslog} facility to use for logging.  Allowed names
are: @samp{auth}, @samp{authpriv}, @samp{cron}, @samp{daemon}, @samp{ftp},
@samp{kern}, @samp{lpr}. @samp{mail}, @samp{news},
@samp{user}. @samp{uucp}, and @samp{local0} through @samp{local7}.

The second form configures @dfn{default log destination}.  If
@command{pound} runs in foreground, log messages with priority
@code{LOG_DEBUG} and @code{LOG_INFO} go to stdout, and messages with
the remaining priorities are printed to stderr.  If @command{pound}
runs as a daemon, log messages go to the syslog facility @samp{daemon}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} LogFormat "@var{name}" "@var{format_def}"
Define request logging format.  @var{name} is a string uniquely
identifying this format, and @var{format_def} is the format string
definition.  @xref{Logging}, for a detailed description of format
definition syntax.
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} LogLevel "@var{name}"
@deffnx {Global directive} LogLevel @var{n}
Specify the format to use to log HTTP requests.  @var{name} is a name
of a custom format, defined earlier using the @code{LogFormat}
directive, or one of six built-in format names.

If numeric argument is used, it refers to a built-in format by its
number (0 through 5).

@xref{Logging}, for a detailed description of HTTP request logging.
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} LogTag "@var{string}"
Sets the string to tag syslog messages with.  By default, it is the
name of the program (more precisely, the name which was used to start
it).
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} ForwardedHeader "@var{name}"
Defines the name of the HTTP header that carries the list of proxies
the request has passed through.  Default value is
@code{X-Forwarded-For}.  This header is used to determine the originator
IP address for logging.  @xref{%a}, for details.
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} TrustedIP
Defines a list of @dfn{trusted proxy}
IP addresses, which is used to determine the originator IP.
@xref{%a}, for details.

This statement is a special form of @code{ACL} statement, described
in @ref{ACL}.  It can have in three forms: @dfn{anonymous ACL},
@dfn{file reference}, or @dfn{ACL reference}.

  Examples:

@enumerate
@item
@example
@group
TrustedIP
  "127.0.0.1/8"
  "10.16.0.0/16"
End
@end group
@end example
@item
@example
TrustedIP -filewatch "/etc/pound/trustip.acl"
@end example
@item
@example
TrustedIP "proxy_addresses"
@end example
@end enumerate
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} Anonymise
@deffnx {Global directive} Anonymize
When logging, replace the last byte of client IP addresses with 0.

Default: log the client address in full.
@end deffn

@node Management interface
@section Management Interface
@command{Pound} provides a management interface, which allows one to
obtain information about the running instance, change state of
configured listeners, services, and backends, etc.  These requests are
normally issued by the poundctl utility (@pxref{poundctl}).

@cindex control socket
The management interface is usually made available via a UNIX socket.
Properties of this @dfn{control socket} are configured via the
@code{Control} statement.  It has two forms: @dfn{directive} and
@dfn{section}.

@deffn {Global directive} Control "@var{filename}"
@anchor{Control statement}
Create a UNIX socket @var{filename} and listen on it for management
requests.  The file will be owned by the user that started
@command{pound} (normally @samp{root}) and have mode 0600.
@end deffn

In section form, the @code{Control} statement allows for specifying
file mode and, to certain extent, socket file ownership.  The section
can contain the following statements:

@deffn {Control statement} Socket "@var{filename}"
Specifies the name of the socket file to use.  This is the only
mandatory statement in the section form.
@end deffn

@deffn {Control statement} Mode @var{octal}
Sets the mode of the socket file.
@end deffn

@deffn {Control statement} ChangeOwner @var{bool}
This statement takes effect if at least one of @code{User} or @code{Group}
global statements is used.  When set to @code{true} it will change the
owner of the socket file to that specified by those two statements.
@end deffn

An example of using the @code{Control} section:

@example
@group
Control
    Socket "/run/pound.sock"
    Mode 660
    ChangeOwner true
End
@end group
@end example

@menu
* Service Control::
@end menu

@node Service Control
@subsection Remote Access to Management Interface
@kwindex Control
  To make the management interface available remotely, use the
@code{Control} statement in a @code{Service} section:

@example
@group
ListenHTTP
    Address 192.0.2.1
    Port 80
    Service
        Control
    End
End
@end group
@end example

  This configuration makes management interface accessible via
@indicateurl{http://192.0.2.1/}.  Due to obvious security
implications, you'd be better off protecting the @code{Control}
endpoint using HTTPS, ACLs and/or basic authorization.  The example
below illustrates all these techniques:

@example
ListenHTTPS
    Address 192.0.2.1
    Port 443
    Cert "/etc/ssl/priv/example.pem"
    Disable TLSv1

    Service
        Not BasicAuth "pound/htpasswd"
        Rewrite response
            SetHeader "WWW-Authenticate: Basic realm=\"Restricted access\""
        End
        Error 401
    End

    Service
        ACL "secure"
        Control
    End
End
@end example

@xref{Authentication}, for a discussion of @code{BasicAuth} statement,
and see @ref{ACL} for a discussion of access control lists (this
example assumes that the ACL @samp{secure} is defined elsewhere in the
configuration file).

If you wish to make management interface available under a special
path, make sure the path prefix is stripped off, e.g.:

@example
@group
Service
    URL -re "^/control(/.+)"
    SetURL "$1"
    Control
End
@end group
@end example

@xref{Service Request and Response Modification}, for details about
@code{SetURL} statement and request modification in general.

@node Timeouts
@section Timeouts

Directives discussed in this section set various timeout values.
Their argument is an integer expressing the value in seconds.

@deffn {Global directive} Alive @var{n}
Specify how often should @command{pound} check for the status of
backend servers marked as @dfn{dead} (i.e. inaccessible).  It is a
good idea to set this as low as possible -- it will find resurrected
hosts faster.  However, if you set it too low it will consume
resources.

Default is 30 seconds.
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} Client @var{n}
Specify for how long @command{pound} will wait for a client request
(default: 10 seconds).  It will drop the connection if client doesn't
send any data within this interval.

This value can be overridden for specific listeners.
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} TimeOut @var{n}
Specify for how long @command{pound} will wait for the backend to
respond (default: 15 seconds).

This value can be overridden for specific backends.
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} ConnTO @var{n}
Specify for how long @command{pound} will wait for a connection to
a backend to be established.  Default is the same as the
@code{TimeOut} value.

This value can be overridden for specific backends.
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} WatcherTTL @var{n}
If file reference ACLs are used on a system that doesn't support
@code{inotify} API, this directive defines the interval between two
successive checks of file modification times.  @xref{ACL filewatch},
for a detailed discussion of this feature and situations when this
setting might be useful.

The default value is 60 seconds.
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} WSTimeOut @var{n}
Specify for how long @command{pound} will wait for data from either
backend or client in a connection upgraded to WebSocket protocol.
Default is 600 seconds.

This value can be overridden for specific backends.
@end deffn

@deffn {Global directive} Grace @var{n}
How long should @command{pound} continue to answer existing
connections after a receiving a @samp{INT} or @samp{HUP}
signal (default: 30 seconds).  The configured listeners are closed
immediately. You can bypass this behaviour by stopping @command{pound}
with a @samp{TERM} or @samp{QUIT} signal, in which case the program
exits without any delay.
@end deffn

@node ListenHTTP
@section ListenHTTP
@kwindex ListenHTTP
 The @code{ListenHTTP} section declares a listener operating in
plaintext HTTP mode.  The section declaration begins with the
keyword @code{ListenHTTP} optionally followed by a string supplying
symbolic name for that listener, e.g.:

@example
@group
ListenHTTP "main"
  @dots{}
End
@end group
@end example

The symbolic name can be used in log messages (@pxref{log format,
@samp{%@{@var{obj}@}N}}) and in @command{poundctl}
(@pxref{poundctl}) requests to identify that listener.  If the
name is not supplied, the listener can be identified by its ordinal
number (0-based) in the configuration file.

@menu
* Listener address::
* Listener-specific limits::
* Error definitions::
* Listener logging::
* Request Modification::
* Response Modification::
* Error response rewriting::
* Service definitions::
@end menu

@node Listener address
@subsection Listener address

@deffn {ListenHTTP directive} Address @var{address}
The IP address that @command{pound} will listen on.  This can be a
numeric IPv4 or IPv6 address, or a full pathname of a UNIX socket.  To
listen on all available interfaces, use @samp{0.0.0.0} (for IPv4), or
@samp{::0} (for both IPv4 and IPv6).

If neither @code{Address} or @code{SocketFrom} are supplied,
@samp{::0} is assumed.
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTP directive} Port @var{n}
@findex /etc/services
The port number or service name (as per @file{/etc/services} that
this listener will listen on.

If this directive is not given, the default port number is assumed (80
for @code{ListenHTTP} and 443 for @code{ListenHTTPS}).
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTP directive} SocketFrom "@var{pathname}"
Read the socket to listen on from the UNIX socket supplied by
@var{pathname}.  If this parameter is supplied, neither @code{Address}
nor @code{Port} may be used.  This parameter is intended for use
in @command{pound} testsuite.
@end deffn

@node Listener-specific limits
@subsection Listener-specific limits

@deffn {ListenHTTP directive} Client @var{n}
Specify for how long @command{pound} will wait for a client request
(default: 10 seconds).  It will drop the connection if client doesn't
send any data within this interval.

This statement overrides the global timeout value (@pxref{Timeouts})
for this particular listener.
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTP directive} LineBufferSize @var{n}
Sets the line buffer size.  Line buffer is used when reading request
line, backend response status line, and header fields in both requests
and responses.  Thus, this value limits the maximum length allowed for
these parts of HTTP messages.  The default is inherited from the
global directive (@pxref{line buffer}).
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTP directive} MaxRequest @var{n}
Limits the maximum allowed size of incoming requests.
A request bigger than that will be responded with status
413.

By default, there is no limit on the request size.
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTP directive} MaxURI @var{n}
Limits the maximum allowed length of incoming request URI.
A request with an URI longer than that will be responded with status
414 (@samp{URI Too Long}).

By default, the limit is set to @code{LineBufferSize} (@pxref{line buffer}).
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTP directive} CheckURL "@var{pattern}"
Define a pattern that must be matched by each request sent to this
listener.  A request that does not match will be returned a 501
status.
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTP directive} xHTTP @var{n}
Defines which HTTP method are accepted. The possible values are:

@table @asis
@item 0
Accept only standard HTTP methods: @code{GET}, @code{POST}, @code{HEAD}.
This is the default.

@item 1
Allow also extended HTTP methods: @code{PUT}, @code{PATCH}, @code{DELETE}.

@item 2
Additionally allow standard WebDAV methods: @code{LOCK}, @code{UNLOCK},
@code{PROPFIND}, @code{PROPPATCH}, @code{SEARCH}, @code{MKCOL},
@code{MOVE}, @code{COPY}, @code{OPTIONS}, @code{TRACE},
@code{MKACTIVITY}, @code{CHECKOUT}, @code{MERGE}, @code{REPORT}.

@item 3
Additionally allow MS extension WebDAV methods: @code{SUBSCRIBE},
@code{UNSUBSCRIBE}, @code{NOTIFY}, @code{BPROPFIND},
@code{BPROPPATCH}, @code{POLL}, @code{BMOVE}, @code{BCOPY},
@code{BDELETE}, @code{CONNECT}.
@end table
@end deffn

@node Error definitions
@subsection Error definitions

When @command{pound} returns an error status, it uses built-in
error-specific description code and status page template.  These
values can be customized using the @code{ErrorFile} statement.

@deffn {ListenHTTP directive} ErrorFile @var{code} "@var{filename}"
Read HTML page for HTTP status code @var{code} from file
@var{filename}.

The @var{code} argument is a three-digit HTTP response status, and
@var{filename} is the name of a file which supplies contents (and,
optionally, HTTP headers) of the error response.  @xref{Error
responses}, for details about the file and its usage.
@end deffn

@kwindex Err400
@kwindex Err401
@kwindex Err403
@kwindex Err404
@kwindex Err413
@kwindex Err414
@kwindex Err500
@kwindex Err501
@kwindex Err503
For compatibility with @command{pound} versions up to 4.11, the
following statement is also recognized:

@example
Err@var{nnn} "@var{filename}"
@end example

@noindent
where @var{nnn} is a three-digit HTTP status code.  This statement
is entirely equivalent to

@example
ErrorFile @var{nnn} "@var{filename}"
@end example

@command{Pound} produces only a subset of all possible status codes,
so not all @var{nnn} codes are allowed.  The discussion below lists
available HTTP codes, along with the error description and default
error page text.

@defvr {HTTP status} 400
@samp{Bad Request}
@*
@quotation
Your browser (or proxy) sent a request that this server could not
understand.
@end quotation
@end defvr

@defvr {HTTP status} 401
@samp{Unauthorized}
@*
@quotation
This server could not verify that you are authorized to access
the document requested.  Either you supplied the wrong credentials
(e.g., bad password), or your browser doesn't understand how to supply
the credentials required.
@end quotation
@end defvr

@defvr {HTTP status} 403
@samp{Forbidden}
@*
@quotation
You don't have permission to access this resource.
It is either read-protected or not readable by the server.
@end quotation
@end defvr

@defvr {HTTP status} 404
@samp{Not Found}
@*
@quotation
The requested URL was not found on this server.
@end quotation
@end defvr

@defvr {HTTP status} 405
@samp{Method Not Allowed}
@*
@quotation
The request method is not supported for the requested resource.
@end quotation
@end defvr

@defvr {HTTP status} 413
@samp{Payload Too Large}
@*
@quotation
The request content is larger than the proxy server is able to
process.
@end quotation
@end defvr

@defvr {HTTP status} 414
@samp{URI Too Long}
@*
@quotation
The length of the requested URL exceeds the capacity limit for this
server.
@end quotation
@end defvr

@defvr {HTTP status} 429
@samp{Too Many Requests}
@*
@quotation
The remote party sent too many requests in a given amount of
time. @command{Pound} never issues this error by itself.  This code is
intended for implementing rate-limiting.  @xref{Rate-limiting}.
@end quotation
@end defvr

@defvr {HTTP status} 500
@samp{Internal Server Error}
@*
@quotation
The server encountered an internal error and was unable to complete
your request.
@end quotation
@end defvr

@defvr {HTTP status} 501
@samp{Not Implemented}
@*
@quotation
The server does not support the action requested.
@end quotation
@end defvr

@defvr {HTTP status} 503
@samp{Service Unavailable}
@*
@quotation
The server is temporarily unable to service your request due to
maintenance downtime or capacity problems. Please try again later.
@end quotation
@end defvr

@node Listener logging
@subsection Listener logging

Following statements are similar to the ones described in @ref{Logging
configuration}, but apply only to the listener they appear in.

@deffn {ListenHTTP directive} LogLevel "@var{name}"
@deffnx {ListenHTTP directive} LogLevel @var{n}
Specify the format to use to log HTTP requests.  @var{name} is a name
of a custom format, defined earlier using the @code{LogFormat}
directive, or one of six built-in format names.

If numeric argument is used, it refers to a built-in format by its
number (0 through 5).

@xref{Logging}, for a detailed description of HTTP request logging.
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTP directive} ForwardedHeader "@var{name}"
Defines the name of the HTTP header that carries the list of proxies
the request has passed through.  Default value is
@code{X-Forwarded-For}.  This header is used to determine the originator
IP address for logging.  @xref{%a}, for details.
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTP directive} TrustedIP
Defines a list of @dfn{trusted proxy}
IP addresses, which is used to determine the originator IP.
@xref{%a}, for details.
@end deffn

@node Request Modification
@subsection Request Modification
The statements discussed in this subsection modify incoming requests prior
to passing them to the backend.  These same set of statements can also
be used in @code{Service} section (@pxref{Service}).  When
appearing in both sections, the directive from @code{ListenHTTP}
(@code{ListenHTTPS}) section are applied first, followed by
directives from the @code{Service} section.  Directives from the same
section are applied in order of their appearance.

@deffn {ListenHTTP Statement} LuaModify "@var{func}" ["@var{arg}"...]
Run Lua function @var{func} with supplied arguments.  The function
is supposed to modify the request.

The @var{func} can be either an unqualified function name, or function
name with module qualifier (@code{module.func}).

Each @var{arg} is subject to to backreference expansion and
request accessor interpretation, as discussed in @ref{Request
modifications}.

This statement is available only if @command{pound} was built with Lua
support.  @xref{LuaModify}, for a detailed discussion.
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTP directive} RewriteDestination @var{bool}
If set to @samp{true}, the @code{Destination:} request header will be
changed to point to the backend with the correct protocol.
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTP directive} SetURL "@var{url}"
Set the URL of the incoming request to @var{url}.
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTP directive} SetPath [-encode] "@var{value}"
@kwindex -encode
Set the path part of the URL to the given string.  If @option{-encode}
option is given, the value will be percent-encoded prior to setting it.
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTP directive} SetQuery "@var{value}"
Set the query part of the URL to the given string.  @var{Value} must be
a valid query with the special characters properly encoded using
percent encoding.
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTP directive} DeleteQuery
Delete query part of the URL.
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTP directive} SetQueryParam "@var{name}" [-encode] "@var{value}"
@deffnx {ListenHTTP directive} SetQueryParam "@var{name}"
@kwindex -encode
Used with two arguments, sets query parameter @var{name} to the
@var{value}.  If @option{-encode} is given, @var{value} will be
percent-encoded prior to being assigned to the parameter.  Otherwise,
it will be assigned verbatim.  The @option{-encode} option is allowed
before @var{name} argument as well.

Used with one argument, deletes the parameter @var{name}.
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTP directive} SetHeader "@var{name}: @var{value}"
@deffnx {ListenHTTP directive} HeaderAdd "@var{name}: @var{value}"
@deffnx {ListenHTTP directive} AddHeader "@var{name}: @var{value}"
Sets the HTTP header.  If the header @var{name} already exists, it
will be overwritten.  Otherwise, new header will be added to the end
of the header list.

The @code{HeaderAdd} and @code{AddHeader} forms are retained for
backward compatibility with earlier @command{pound} versions.  You are
advised against using them.
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTP directive} DeleteHeader [@var{options}] "@var{pattern}"
Remove from the request all headers matching @var{pattern}.  The
@code{HeaderRemove} and @code{HeadRemove} forms are retained for
backward compatibility with earlier @command{pound} versions.  You are
advised against using them.

By default, @var{pattern} is treated as extended POSIX regular
expression.  The @var{options} argument can be used to alter this.  It consists
of zero or more option flags from the following list:

@float Table, deleteheader-option
@caption{Header matching flags for @code{DeleteHeader} directive}
@multitable @columnfractions .30 .70
@headitem Flag @tab Meaning

@kwindex -beg, DeleteHeader option
@cindex prefix match, @code{DeleteHeader}
@item @code{-beg} @tab Exact match at the beginning of string (prefix match).

@kwindex -case, DeleteHeader option
@cindex case insensitive match, @code{DeleteHeader}
@item @code{-case} @tab Case-sensitive comparison.

@kwindex -contain, DeleteHeader option
@cindex substring match, @code{DeleteHeader}
@item @code{-contain} @tab Delete each header where "@var{pattern}" is
a substring.

@kwindex -end, DeleteHeader option
@cindex suffix match, @code{DeleteHeader}
@item @code{-end} @tab Exact match at the end of string (suffix match).

@kwindex -exact, DeleteHeader option
@cindex exact match, @code{DeleteHeader}
@item @code{-exact} @tab Use exact string match.

@kwindex -icase, DeleteHeader option
@cindex case sensitive match, @code{DeleteHeader}
@item @code{-icase} @tab Case-insensitive comparison.

@kwindex -pcre, DeleteHeader option
@cindex Perl-compatible regular expression match, @code{DeleteHeader}
@cindex PCRE match, @code{DeleteHeader}
@item @code{-pcre} @tab Use Perl-compatible regular expression.
@pxref{Regular Expressions}.

@kwindex -perl, DeleteHeader option
@cindex Perl-compatible regular expression match, @code{DeleteHeader}
@cindex PCRE match, @code{DeleteHeader}
@item @code{-perl} @tab Same as @code{-pcre}.

@kwindex -posix, DeleteHeader option
@cindex posix regular expression match, @code{DeleteHeader}
@item @code{-posix} @tab Use POSIX extended regular expression.
@pxref{Regular Expressions}.

@kwindex -re, DeleteHeader option
@cindex regular expression match, @code{DeleteHeader}
@item @code{-re} @tab Use regular expression match.  This assumes the
default regular expression type, as set by the @code{RegexType}
directive (@pxref{Regular Expressions}).
@end multitable
@end float

The following options are mutually exclusive: @code{-beg},
@code{-contain}, @code{-end}, @code{-exact}, @code{-pcre} (@code{-perl}),
@code{-posix}, @code{-re}.  If more than one of these are used, the
last one takes effect.
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTP directive} HeaderRemove "@var{pattern}"
@deffnx {ListenHTTP directive} HeadRemove "@var{pattern}"
These are obsolete keywords, equivalent to

@example
DeleteHeader -icase "@var{pattern}"
@end example
@end deffn

@menu
* Rewrite::
@end menu

@node Rewrite
@subsubsection The @code{rewrite} statement
@kwindex Rewrite
The @code{Rewrite} block statement associates one or more header
modification directives discussed above with @dfn{conditionals}, so
that request modification takes place only when the request matches
certain conditions.

Syntactically, a @code{Rewrite} section is:

@example
@group
  Rewrite [ request ]
    @var{conditional_directives}@dots{}
    @var{modification_directives}@dots{}
[ Else
    @var{conditional_directives}@dots{}
    @var{modification_directives}@dots{} ]
  End
@end group
@end example

@noindent
where @var{conditional_directives} represents one or more @dfn{request
conditionals} described below and @var{modification_directives} stands
for one or more header modification directives.  The @code{Else} part
is optional; any number of @code{Else} blocks can be supplied, thus
providing for conditional branching.

 The @code{Rewrite} statement is processed sequentially until a branch
is found whose @var{conditional_directives} yield @samp{true}, or
@code{End} is encountered.  If a matching branch is found, its
@var{modification_directives} are applied to the request.

@anchor{request matching directives}
@anchor{conditionals}
 @dfn{Request matching directives} or @dfn{request conditionals} are special
statements that, being applied to a HTTP request, yield @samp{true} or
@samp{false} depending on whether the request satisfies the condition
described in the directive.

All directive described below can read a list of conditions from a
disk file and reload that list upon any changes.  @xref{File-based
Conditions}, for a detailed discussion of this feature.

The following conditionals are available:

@deffn {Request Conditional} ACL [-forwarded] "@var{name}"
Returns @samp{true} if the source IP matches one of the CIDRs from the
named access control list @var{name}.  The ACL itself must have been
defined earlier (@pxref{ACL definition}).

@kwindex -forwarded
By default, @code{ACL} operates on the actual originator IP address.
This is changed if @code{-forwarded} is specified, in which case it
uses an IP determined from the @code{X-Forwarded-For} (or similar)
header (@pxref{%a}).

@xref{ACL}, for a detailed discussion.
@end deffn

@deffn {Request Conditional} ACL [-forwarded]
This statement defines an unnamed ACL to match the source IP against.
This line must be followed by one or more lines defining CIDRs, as
described in @ref{ACL definition}.  The ACL definition is finished with an
@code{End} keyword on a line by itself.

The @code{-forwarded} option instructs @command{pound} to use source
IP address determined from the @code{X-Forwarded-For} header
(@pxref{%a}), instead of the actual originator IP.

Semantically, this statement is equivalent to the named ACL reference
described above.

@xref{ACL}, for a detailed discussion.
@end deffn

@deffn {Request Conditional} ACL [-forwarded] -file "@var{filename}"
@deffnx {Request Conditional} ACL [-forwarded] -filewatch "@var{filename}"
Defines an unnamed ACL to match the source IP against.  The ACL definition
is read from the file @var{filename}, one CIDR per line.  Empty lines
and comments are allowed.  If @var{filename} is relative, it is looked
up in the @ref{include directory}.  The form with @code{-file} reads
the file contents once, at the program startup.  The one with
@code{-filewatch} reads it and then monitors that file for changes.
@xref{File-based Conditions}, for a detailed discussion.

The meaning of @code{-forwarded} is as described above.
@end deffn

@deffn {Request Conditional} BasicAuth [@var{option}] "@var{filename}"
Evaluates to @samp{true}, if the incoming request passes basic authorization
as described in RFC 7617.  @var{Filename} is the name of a plain text
file containing usernames and passwords, created with @command{htpasswd}
or similar utility.  Unless the name starts with a slash, it is taken
relative to the @code{IncludeDir} directory (@pxref{include
directory}).
The file is cached in the memory at startup, so that further
authorizations do not result in disk operations.  The file will be
reloaded if changed (@pxref{File-based Conditions}).

@xref{Authentication}, for a detailed description.

For consistency with other conditions, @code{BasicAuth} accepts the
following options: @option{-file} and @option{-filewatch}.  The
latter enables the default behavior and so need not be specified
explicitly.  The former disables file change monitoring.
@end deffn

@anchor{Eval statement}
@deffn {Request Conditional} Eval "@var{name}"
Evaluates the @dfn{detached condition} @var{name}.  The result is
cached, so that each detached condition is evaluated at most once.
All @code{Eval} directives referring to its name will reuse the cached
value.  @xref{Detached Conditions}, for a detailed discussion.
@end deffn

@deffn {Request Conditional} Header [@var{options}] "@var{pattern}"
@deffnx {Request Conditional} Header "@var{field}" [@var{options}] "@var{pattern}"
Evaluates to @samp{true}, if the request contains at least one header
matching the given @var{pattern}.  The directive has two forms.
In first form, the @var{pattern} is compared against entire header line.
In second form, the @var{field} argument supplies the header name, and
@var{pattern} the pattern to match against its value (or the name of
the file to read patterns from, if @var{options} is @code{-file} or
@code{-filewatch}).

An example of @code{Header} statement in first form:

@example
Header "^Content-Type:[[:space:]]*text/.+"
@end example

Here's the corresponding statement in second form:

@example
Header "Content-Type" "text/.+"
@end example

In both forms, @var{pattern} is treated as case-insensitive POSIX
extended regular expression.  This can be changed by @var{options},
described below.

In first form, pattern modification options, such as @code{-beg} or
@code{-contain} apply to entire header line.  In second form, they
apply to header value only.  For example, you can write:

@example
Header "Content-Type" -beg "text/"
@end example

@noindent
to match a request whose @samp{Content-Type} header @emph{value}
begins with @samp{text/}, or

@example
Header -contain "forwarded"
@end example

@noindent
to match requests that contain any header with the word
@samp{forwarded} anywhere, be it header field name or its value.
@end deffn

@deffn {Request Conditional} Host [@var{options}] "@var{hostname}"
Evaluates to @samp{true}, if the @code{Host} header matches
@var{hostname}.  In the absence of @var{options}, case-insensitive
exact match is assumed, i.e. this construct is equivalent to

@example
Header "Host:[[:space:]]*@var{qhost}"
@end example

@noindent
where @var{qhost} is the @var{hostname} argument in quoted form, i.e. with
all characters that have special meaning in regular expressions escaped.

@xref{conditional-option}, for a detailed discussion of @var{options} and
their effect on matching.

This statement is provided to facilitate handling of @dfn{virtual
hosts}.  @xref{Service selection}, for details.
@end deffn

@deffn {Request Conditional} LuaMatch "@var{func}" ["@var{arg}"...]
Run Lua function @var{func} with the supplied arguments.  Use its
return value (which must be boolean) as the result of the test.

The @var{func} can be either an unqualified function name, or function
name with module qualifier (@code{module.func}).

Each @var{arg} is subject to to backreference expansion and
request accessor interpretation, as discussed in @ref{Request
modifications}.

This statement is available only if @command{pound} was built with Lua
support.  @xref{LuaMatch}, for a detailed discussion.
@end deffn

@deffn {Request Conditional} Path [@var{options}] "@var{pattern}"
Returns @samp{true}, if the path part of the incoming request matches
@var{pattern}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Request Conditional} Query [@var{options}] "@var{pattern}"
Returns @samp{true}, if the query part of the incoming request matches
@var{pattern}.  The argument must be properly percent-encoded, if it
contains whitespace or other non-printable characters.

@var{options} is zero or more conditional options, as discussed in
@ref{conditional-option}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Request Conditional} QueryParam "@var{name}" [@var{options}] "@var{pattern}"
Returns @samp{true}, if query parameter @var{name} is defined and
its value matches @var{pattern}.

@kwindex -decode
@var{options} is zero or more conditional options (@pxref{conditional-option}),
or @option{-decode}, which instructs the program to percent-decode the
value prior to comparison.
@end deffn

@deffn {Request Conditional} StringMatch "@var{string}" [@var{options}] "@var{pattern}"
Expands @var{string} as described in @ref{String Expansions} and matches the
resulting value against @var{pattern}.

@xref{conditional-option}, for a detailed discussion of @var{options} and
their effect on matching.
@end deffn

@deffn {Request Conditional} TBF @var{key} @var{rate} @var{burst}
Defines a @dfn{token bucket filter} condition.  @xref{Rate-limiting},
for a detailed discussion.  Arguments are:

@table @var
@item key
A string identifying the bucket.  It is subject to backreference
expansion and request accessor interpretation, as described in
@ref{String Expansions}.

@item rate
Rate limit.  A single decimal number means requests per second.
To specify another time unit, follow the number with a slash, another
number and optional unit specifier (@samp{s} for seconds, @samp{ms}
for milliseconds, and @samp{us} for microseconds).  Examples:

@example
1/2s @result{} "one request per two seconds"
200/500ms @result{} "200 requests per 500 milliseconds"
@end example

@item burst
Burst value, i.e. maximum number of tokens the bucket can contain.
@end table
@end deffn

@deffn {Request Conditional} URL [@var{options}] "@var{pattern}"
Matches URL of the request.  @var{Pattern} is
treated as case-sensitive extended regular expression, unless
instructed otherwise by @var{options} (see below).
@end deffn

In these directives, @var{options} is a whitespace-delimited list of
zero or more options discussed below:

@anchor{conditional-option}
@deffn {Conditional option} -beg
Exact match at the beginning of string (prefix match).
@end deffn

@deffn {Conditional option} -case
@cindex case insensitive matching
Case-sensitive comparison.
@end deffn

@deffn {Conditional option} -contain
@cindex substring matching
Match if @var{pattern} is a substring of the original value.
@end deffn

@deffn {Conditional option} -end
@cindex suffix matching
Exact match at the end of string (suffix match).
@end deffn

@deffn {Conditional option} -exact
@cindex exact matching
Exact string match.
@end deffn

@anchor{-file}
@deffn {Conditional option} -file
@cindex file lookup
Treat @var{pattern} as the name of a file to read patterns from.  If
the name is relative, it will be looked up in the @ref{include
directory}.  Patterns are read from the file line by line.  Leading
and trailing whitespace is removed.  Empty lines and comments (lines
starting with @code{#}) are ignored.
@end deffn

@deffn {Conditional option} -filewatch
Same as @code{-file}, but the file will be monitored for changes and
reloaded as soon as such are detected.  @xref{File-based
Conditions}, for a detailed description.
@end deffn

@deffn {Conditional option} -icase
@cindex case sensitive matching
Case-insensitive comparison.
@end deffn

@deffn {Conditional option} -pcre
@deffnx {Conditional option} -perl
@cindex Perl-compatible regular expression match, headers
@cindex PCRE match, headers
Use Perl-compatible regular expression.  @xref{Regular Expressions}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Conditional option} -posix
@cindex posix regular expression matching
Use POSIX extended regular expression. @xref{Regular Expressions}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Conditional option} -re
@cindex regular expression matching
Use regular expression match.  This assumes the default regular
expression type, as set by the @code{RegexType} directive
(@pxref{Regular Expressions}).
@end deffn

@anchor{tag}
@deffn {Conditional option} -tag "@var{t}"
Tag this conditional with string @var{t}.  The tag can be used by
another statements to refer to substrings obtained when matching this
pattern.

For example:

@example
@group
Host -tag host -re "(www\\.)?(example.(org|com))"
Header "Content-Type" -tag "type" -re -icase "^application/(.+)"
Path -tag "path" -re "/public/(.+)"
SetPath "$3(host)/$1(type)$1(path)"
@end group
@end example

@xref{Backreference Expansion}, for a detailed discussion of how
backreferences are expanded in strings.
@end deffn

The following options are mutually exclusive: @code{-beg}, @code{-contain},
@code{-end}, @code{-exact}, @code{-pcre} (@code{-perl}),
@code{-posix}, @code{-re}.  If more than one of these are used, the
last one takes effect.

@kwindex Not
Placing the keyword @code{Not} before a header matching directive reverts its
meaning.  For example, the following will match any request whose URL
does not begin with @code{/static/}:

@example
Not URL -beg "/static/"
@end example

@kwindex Match
The @code{Match} block statement can be used to join multiple
conditional statements.  Its syntax is:

@example
Match @var{op}
  @dots{}
End
@end example

@noindent
where @dots{} stands for any number of conditionals, and
@var{op} is a boolean operation: @code{AND} or @code{OR}
(case-insensitive).  For example, the statement

@example
@group
Match OR
  Host "www.example.net"
  Path -beg "/ssl"
End
@end group
@end example

@noindent
will match if the request @code{Host} header has the value
@samp{www.example.net}, or the path part of its URL starts with
@samp{/ssl}.  In contrast, the statement below:

@example
@group
Match AND
  Host "www.example.net"
  Path -beg "/ssl"
End
@end group
@end example

@noindent
will match only if both these conditions are met.  As a syntactical
short-cut, two or more conditionals appearing outside of @code{Match}
are joined by an implicit logical @code{AND}, so that the latter
example is equivalent to:

@example
@group
Host "www.example.net"
Path -beg "/ssl"
@end group
@end example

The @code{Match} statement, like any other conditional, can be
prefixed with @code{Not}, which reverts its meaning.

@node Response Modification
@subsection Response Modification

@deffn {ListenHTTP directive} RewriteLocation @var{n}
This statement controls whether @code{Location:} and
@code{Content-location:} headers in HTTP responses are modified before
sending them back to the client.

If @var{n} is 0, both headers are left intact.

If @var{n} is 1, the headers are changed as follows.  If they point to the
backend itself or to the listener (but with the wrong protocol),
the request host name will be used instead.  This is the default.

If @var{n} is 2, do the same, but compare only the backend address;
this is useful for redirecting a request to an HTTPS listener on
the same server as the HTTP listener.

To check whether the location points to the listener or to the
backend, its hostname part is resolved and the obtained IP address (or
addresses) are compared with that of listener or backend.  This
process is affected by the @option{dns} feature setting
(@pxref{dns}).  If it is disabled (@option{-W no-dns} option is
given), no resolving takes place.  In this case the location is deemed
to point to the listener if its hostname part matches that of the
incoming request.  For backends, the hostname is compared with the
value of the @code{ServerName} setting of that backend
(@pxref{ServerName}), if any.
@end deffn

@menu
* rewrite response::
@end menu

@node rewrite response
@subsubsection The @code{Rewrite response} statement.

 A special form of the @code{Rewrite} statement is provided for
modifying headers in the response obtained from a regular backend or
generated with a @code{Error} backend, before sending them back to
the requesting server:

@example
@group
  Rewrite response
    @var{conditional_directives}@dots{}
    @var{modification_directives}@dots{}
[ Else
    @var{conditional_directives}@dots{}
    @var{modification_directives}@dots{} ]
  End
@end group
@end example

 The conditional directives allowed for use in this statement are:

@deffn {Rewrite response conditional} Eval "@var{name}"
Evaluates the @dfn{detached condition} @var{name}.  The result
is cached, so that each detached condition is evaluated at most once.
All @code{Eval} directives referring to its name will reuse the cached
value.  @xref{Detached Conditions}, for a detailed discussion.
@end deffn

@deffn {Rewrite response conditional} Header [@var{options}] "@var{pattern}"
Returns @samp{true}, if the response contains at least one header
matching the given @var{pattern}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Rewrite response conditional} LuaMatch "@var{func}" ["@var{arg}"...]
Run Lua function @var{func} with the supplied arguments.  Use its
return value (which must be boolean) as the result of the test.

The @var{func} can be either an unqualified function name, or function
name with module qualifier (@code{module.func}).

Each @var{arg} is subject to to backreference expansion and
request accessor interpretation, as discussed in @ref{Request modifications}.

This statement is available only if @command{pound} was built with Lua
support.  @xref{LuaMatch}, for a detailed discussion.
@end deffn

@deffn {Rewrite response conditional} StringMatch "@var{string}" [@var{options}] "@var{pattern}"
Expands @var{string} as described in @ref{String Expansions}, and matches the
resulting value against @var{pattern}.

@xref{conditional-option}, for a detailed discussion of @var{options} and
their effect on matching.
@end deffn

  Both conditionals treat their @var{pattern} argument as
case-insensitive POSIX extended regular expression.
@xref{conditional-option}, for a discussion of available @var{options}.

  The following @dfn{response modification} directives are defined:

@deffn {Response modification} DeleteHeader [@var{options}] "@var{pattern}"
Remove matching headers from the response.  By
default, @var{pattern} is treated as extended POSIX regular
expression.  Use @var{options} to alter this behavior.
@xref{deleteheader-option}, for a list of available options.
@end deffn

@deffn {Response modification} LuaModify "@var{func}" ["@var{arg}"...]
Run Lua function @var{func} with supplied arguments.  The function
is supposed to modify the response.

The @var{func} can be either an unqualified function name, or function
name with module qualifier (@code{module.func}).

Each @var{arg} is subject to to backreference expansion and
request accessor interpretation, as discussed in @ref{Request
modifications}.

This statement is available only if @command{pound} was built with Lua
support.  @xref{LuaModify}, for a detailed discussion.
@end deffn

@deffn {Response modification} SetHeader "@var{name}: @var{value}"
Sets the HTTP response header.  Argument
undergoes string expansion (@xref{String Expansions}).  If the header
@var{name} already exists, it will be overwritten.  Otherwise, new
header will be added to the end of the header list.
@end deffn

@node Error response rewriting
@subsection Rewriting error responses
  When a regular backend responds with an error, the content (body)
of that response can be replaced with an arbitrary custom page.  For this
to work, the following conditions should be met:

@enumerate 1
@item
Response status code is one of error codes that @command{pound} itself
can return.  These are listed in @ref{Error definitions}.
@item
A custom error page is defined for that status code using the
@code{ErrorFile} statement.
@item
Error response rewriting is explicitly enabled for the service
that contains the backend from which the response is obtained, or for
the listener where that service is located.  To do so use the
following statement:
@end enumerate

@deffn {ListenHTTP directive} RewriteErrors @var{bool}
Enables or disables error response rewriting for that listener.

The same statement is available for use within a service (see below).
The @code{RewriteErrors} setting of a service overrides that of the
listener.
@end deffn

@node Service definitions
@subsection Service definitions
@kwindex Service definitions
The @code{Service} section defines rules that decide to which backend to
route requests received by that listener.  Any number of
@code{Service} sections can be present.  When a request is received,
the listener iterates over all services in the order of their
appearance in the configuration and applies the section rules to the
request.  If the rules match the request, the request is forwarded to
the backend defined in that section.

@xref{Service}, for a detailed discussion of the @code{Service}
statement.

@deffn {ListenHTTP statement} ACME @var{dir}
This statement defines a special service with a built-in backend for
handling @samp{ACME} challenge requests.  @xref{ACME}, for a detailed
discussion of its use.

The @var{dir} argument defines the directory where to look for
challenge files.
@end deffn

@node ListenHTTPS
@section ListenHTTPS
@kwindex ListenHTTPS

The @code{ListenHTTPS} section defines a listener that operates in
HTTPS.  The section declaration begins with the keyword @code{ListenHTTPS}
optionally followed by a string supplying symbolic name for that
listener:

@example
@group
ListenHTTPS "main"
  ...
End
@end group
@end example

The purpose of the symbolic name is the same as in @code{ListenHTTP}
statement.  All keywords defined for @code{ListenHTTP} can be used
for @code{ListenHTTPS} as well.  @xref{ListenHTTP}, for a detailed
discussion of these.

Statements specific for this section are:

@deffn {ListenHTTPS} Cert "@var{filename}"
Specifies the server @dfn{certificate}.  @var{Filename} is either a
certificate file name, or the name of a directory containing certificate files.

A @dfn{certificate file} is a file containing the certificate,
possibly a certificate chain and the signature for this server, in
that order.

This directive is mandatory within @code{ListenHTTPS}.

Multiple @code{Cert} directives are allowed.  If multiple directives
are used, the first one is the default certificate, with additional
certificates used if the client requests them.

The ordering of the directives is important: the first certificate
where the CN matches the client request will be used, so put your
directives in the most-specific-to-least specific order (i.e. wildcard
certificates after host-specific certificates).

@code{Cert} directives must precede all other SSL-specific directives.
@end deffn

@anchor{ClientCert}
@deffn {ListenHTTPS} ClientCert @var{mode} @var{depth}
Specifies whether the listener must ask for the client's HTTPS
certificate.  Allowed values for @var{mode} are:

@enumerate 0
@item
Never ask for the certificate (the default).
@item
Ask for the client certificate.  It is OK if the client doesn't
present it.
@item
Ask for the client certificate.  Fail if the client doesn't
present it.
@item
Ask for the client certificate, but don't verify it.
@end enumerate

@var{Depth} is the depth of verification for a client certificate (up
to 9). The default depth limit is 9, allowing for the peer certificate
and additional 9 CA certificates that must be verified.
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTPS} Disable @var{proto}
@kwindex SSLv2
@kwindex SSLv3
@kwindex TLSv1
@kwindex TLSv1_1
@kwindex TLSv1_2
Disable the SSL protocol @var{proto} and all lower protocols as well.
Allowed values for @var{proto} are: @code{SSLv2}, @code{SSLv3},
@code{TLSv1}, @code{TLSv1_1}, @code{TLSv1_2}.

For example:

@example
Disable TLSv1
@end example

This disables SSLv2, SSLv3 and TLSv1, thus allowing only TLSv1_1
and TLSv1_2.
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTPS} Ciphers "@var{cipher_list}"
This is the list of ciphers that will be accepted by the SSL
connection; it is a string in the same format as in @command{OpenSSL}
@code{ciphers} and @code{SSL_CTX_set_cipher_list} functions.
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTPS} SSLHonorCipherOrder @var{bool}
If set @code{true}, the server will broadcast a preference to use
ciphers in the order supplied in the @code{Ciphers} directive.  If the
value is @code{false}, the server will accept any cipher from the
@code{Ciphers} list.  Default value is @code{false}.
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTPS} SSLAllowClientRenegotiation @var{mode}
If @var{mode} is 0, client initiated renegotiation will be disabled.
This will mitigate DoS exploits based on client renegotiation,
regardless of the patch status of clients and servers related to
@dfn{Secure renegotiation}.  If @var{mode} is 1, secure renegotiation is
supported.  If @var{mode} value is 2, insecure renegotiation is supported.

The default value is 0.
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTPS} CAlist "@var{filename}"
Set the list of trusted CA's for this server.  The @var{filename} is
the name of a file containing a sequence of CA certificates (in PEM
format).  The names of the defined CA certificates will be sent to the
client on connection.
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTPS} VerifyList "@var{filename}"
Set the certificate authority list. The @var{filename} is the name of
a file with CA root certificates, in PEM format.
@end deffn

@emph{Please note}, that there is an important difference between the
@code{CAlist} and the @code{VerifyList}.  The @code{CAlist} tells the
client (browser) which client certificates it should send.  The
@code{VerifyList} defines which CAs are actually used for the
verification of the returned certificate.

@deffn {ListenHTTPS} CRLlist "@var{filename}"
Set the @dfn{Certificate Revocation List} file.  @var{Filename} is the
name of a file that contains the CRLs (in PEM format).
@end deffn

@deffn {ListenHTTPS} NoHTTPS11 @var{mode}
Behave like an @code{HTTP/1.0} server for HTTPS clients.  If @var{mode} is
0, always conform to HTTPS/1.1.  If it is 1, do not allow multiple
requests on SSL connections.  If the value is 2 (default), disable multiple
requests on SSL connections only for MSIE clients.
@end deffn

@node Service
@section Service
  The @code{Service} statements define backends to use and conditions
a request should satisfy in order to be routed to these backends.
These statements can appear both within @code{ListenHTTP}
(@code{ListenHTTPS}) sections and outside of them.  When processing an
incoming request, the listener will first try to match it against
services defined within it.  If none of these services matches the
request, it will try to match it against services defined in the top
level.  If a matching service is found, it will be used to process the
request.  Otherwise a 503 (@dfn{Service Unavailable}) response will be
returned.

  A service is defined by a section statement that begins with the
@code{Section} keyword, followed by service definition statements and
terminated by @code{End} on a line by itself:

@example
@group
Service "@var{name}"
  @dots{}
End
@end group
@end example

  Optional @var{name} argument assigns a symbolic name to the
service.  That name is used to identify the service in diagnostic
and access log messages (@pxref{log format, @samp{%@{@var{obj}@}N}}),
metric output (@pxref{Metrics}), and in @command{poundctl}
requests (@pxref{poundctl}).  In the absence of an assigned
@var{name}, the ordinal number of the service in the enclosing section
is used as its identifier.  Service numbers start at 0.

  Following subsections discuss statements that can be used in
@code{Service} sections.

@menu
* Service Selection Statements::
* Service Request and Response Modification::
* Service Logging::
* Backends::
* Session::
* Other Statements::
@end menu

@node Service Selection Statements
@subsection Service Selection Statements
  Service selection statements define conditions an incoming request
must satisfy in order to be handled by this service.

@deffn {Service Conditional} ACL "@var{name}"
Returns @samp{true} if the source IP of the request matches one of the
CIDRs from the named access control list @var{name}.  The ACL itself
must have been defined earlier (@pxref{ACL definition}).

@xref{ACL}, for a detailed discussion.
@end deffn

@deffn {Service Conditional} ACL @option{-file} "@var{filename}"
@deffnx {Service Conditional} ACL @option{-filewatch} "@var{filename}"
Reads ACL definitions from the file @var{filename}.  The file shall contain
unquoted CIDR definitions, each one on a separate line.  Empty
lines and comments (starting with @samp{#} and ending at the nearest
newline) are ignored.

If the @option{-filewatch} option is used, the file will be monitored
and reloaded automatically as soon as it changes.  @xref{File-based
Conditions}, for a detailed discussion.
@end deffn

@deffn {Service Conditional} ACL
This statement defines an unnamed ACL to match the source IP against.
This line must be followed by one or more lines defining CIDRs, as
described in @ref{ACL definition}.  The ACL definition is finished with an
@code{End} keyword on a line by itself.

Semantically, this statement is equivalent to the named ACL reference
described above.

@xref{ACL}, for a detailed discussion.
@end deffn

@deffn {Service Conditional} BasicAuth [@var{option}] "@var{filename}"
Evaluates to @samp{true}, if the incoming request passes basic authorization
as described in RFC 7617.  @var{Filename} is the name of a plain text
file containing usernames and passwords, created with @command{htpasswd}
or similar utility.  Unless the name starts with a slash, it is taken
relative to the @code{IncludeDir} directory (@pxref{include directory}).
The file is cached in the memory at startup, so that further
authorizations do not result in disk operations.  The file will be
rescanned upon any change.  @xref{File-based Conditions}, for a
detailed description of this feature.

@xref{Authentication}, for a detailed description.

For consistency with other conditions, @code{BasicAuth} accepts the
following options: @option{-file} and @option{-filewatch}.  The
latter enables the default behavior and so need not be specified
explicitly.  The former disables file change monitoring.
@end deffn

@anchor{ClientCert conditional}
@deffn {Service Conditional} ClientCert "@var{filename}"
Evaluates to @samp{true} if the client presents the certificate
matching that from the file @var{filename} (PEM format).

This conditional cannot be used in standalone services (i.e. services
that are defined in global scope).  It also cannot be used if the
@code{ListenHTTPS} section that hosts the service has the
@code{ClientCert} statement on its own.
@end deffn

@deffn {Service Conditional} Eval "@var{name}"
Evaluates the @dfn{detached condition} @var{name}.  The result is
cached, so that each detached condition is evaluated at most once.
All @code{Eval} directives referring to its name will reuse the cached
value.  @xref{Detached Conditions}, for a detailed discussion.
@end deffn

@deffn {Service Conditional} Header [@var{options}] "@var{pattern}"
Yields @samp{true}, if the request contains at least one header
matching the given @var{pattern}.  By default, @var{pattern} is treated as
case-insensitive POSIX extended regular expression.  This can be changed by
@var{options}, described below.
@end deffn

@deffn {Service Conditional} Host [@var{options}] "@var{hostname}"
Evaluates to @samp{true}, if the @code{Host} header matches
@var{hostname}.  In the absence of @var{options}, case-insensitive
exact match is assumed, i.e. this construct is equivalent to

@example
Header "Host:[[:space:]]*@var{qhost}"
@end example

@noindent
where @var{qhost} is the @var{hostname} argument in quoted form, i.e. with
all characters that have special meaning in regular expressions escaped.

@xref{conditional-option}, for a detailed discussion of @var{options} and
their effect on matching.

This statement is provided to facilitate handling of @dfn{virtual
hosts}.  @xref{Service selection}, for details.
@end deffn

@deffn {Service Conditional} LuaMatch "@var{func}" ["@var{arg}"...]
Run Lua function @var{func} with the supplied arguments.  Use its
return value (which must be boolean) as the result of the test.

The @var{func} can be either an unqualified function name, or function
name with module qualifier (@code{module.func}).

Each @var{arg} is subject to to backreference expansion and
request accessor interpretation, as discussed in @ref{Request
modifications}.

This statement is available only if @command{pound} was built with Lua
support.  @xref{LuaMatch}, for a detailed discussion.
@end deffn

@deffn {Service Conditional} Path [@var{options}] "@var{pattern}"
Returns @samp{true}, if the path part of the incoming request matches
@var{pattern}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Service Conditional} Query [@var{options}] "@var{pattern}"
Returns @samp{true}, if the query part of the incoming request matches
@var{pattern}.  The argument must be properly percent-encoded, if it
contains whitespace or other non-printable characters.

@xref{conditional-option}, for a detailed discussion of @var{options} and
their effect on matching.
@end deffn

@deffn {Service Conditional} QueryParam "@var{name}" [@var{options}] "@var{pattern}"
Returns @samp{true}, if the value of the query parameter @var{name}
matches @var{pattern}.

@kwindex -decode
@var{options} is zero or more conditional options (@pxref{conditional-option}),
or @option{-decode}, which instructs the program to percent-decode the
value prior to comparison.
@end deffn

@deffn {Service Conditional} StringMatch "@var{string}" [@var{options}] "@var{pattern}"
Expands @var{string} as described in @ref{String Expansions}, and matches the
resulting value against @var{pattern}.

@xref{conditional-option}, for a detailed discussion of @var{options} and
their effect on matching.
@end deffn

@deffn {Service Conditional} URL [@var{options}] "@var{pattern}"
Matches URL of the request.  @var{Pattern} is
treated as case-sensitive extended regular expression, unless
instructed otherwise by @var{options} (see below).
@end deffn

The @var{options} argument in the directives discussed above defines
the comparison algorithm used.  It consists of one or more flags
described in @ref{conditional-option}.

@kwindex Not
Placing the keyword @code{Not} before a header matching directive reverts its
meaning.  For example, the following will match any request whose URL
does not begin with @code{/static/}:

@example
Not URL -beg "/static/"
@end example

@kwindex Match
The @code{Match} block statement can be used to join multiple header
matching directives.  Its syntax is:

@example
Match @var{op}
  @dots{}
End
@end example

@noindent
where @dots{} stands for any number of conditionals, and
@var{op} is a boolean operation: @code{AND} or @code{OR}
(case-insensitive).  @xref{Match in service statement}, for a detailed
discussion with examples.

@node Service Request and Response Modification
@subsection Request and Response Modification
  These statements modify incoming requests prior to passing them to
the backend.  A similar set of statements can be used in listeners
(@pxref{Request Modification}).  In case both the listener and service
contain request modification statements, those from the listener are
applied first, followed by the ones from the service.

@deffn {Service directive} SetURL "@var{url}"
Set the URL of the incoming request to @var{url}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Service directive} SetPath [-encode] "@var{value}"
@kwindex -encode
Set the path part of the URL to the given string.  If @option{-encode}
option is given, the value will be percent-encoded prior to setting it.
@end deffn

@deffn {Service directive} SetQuery "@var{value}"
Set the query part of the URL to the given string.  @var{Value} must be
a valid query with the special characters properly encoded using
percent encoding.
@end deffn

@deffn {Service directive} DeleteQuery
Delete query part of the URL.
@end deffn

@deffn {Service directive} SetQueryParam "@var{name}" [-encode] ["@var{value}"]
@kwindex -encode
Used with two arguments, sets query parameter @var{name} to the
@var{value}.  If @option{-encode} is given, @var{value} will be
percent-encoded prior to being assigned to the parameter.  Otherwise,
it will be assigned verbatim.  The @option{-encode} option is allowed
after @var{name} argument as well.

Used with one argument, deletes the parameter @var{name}.
characters.

Used with one argument, deletes the parameter @var{name}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Service directive} SetHeader "@var{name}: @var{value}"
@deffnx {Service directive} HeaderAdd "@var{name}: @var{value}"
@deffnx {Service directive} AddHeader "@var{name}: @var{value}"
Sets the HTTP header.  If the header @var{name} already exists, it
will be overwritten.  Otherwise, new header will be added to the end
of the header list.

The @code{HeaderAdd} and @code{AddHeader} forms are retained for
backward compatibility with earlier @command{pound} versions.  You are
advised against using them.
@end deffn

@deffn {Service directive} DeleteHeader [@var{options}] "@var{pattern}"
@deffnx {Service directive} HeaderRemove [@var{options}] "@var{pattern}"
@deffnx {Service directive} HeadRemove [@var{options}] "@var{pattern}"
Remove from the request all headers matching @var{pattern}.  The
@code{HeaderRemove} and @code{HeadRemove} forms are retained for
backward compatibility with earlier @command{pound} versions.  You are
advised against using them.

By default, @var{pattern} is treated as extended POSIX regular
expression.  The @var{options} argument can be used to alter this.  It
consists of zero or more option flags, described in
@ref{deleteheader-option}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Service Statement} LuaModify "@var{func}" ["@var{arg}"...]
Run Lua function @var{func} with supplied arguments.  The function
is supposed to modify the request.

The @var{func} can be either an unqualified function name, or function
name with module qualifier (@code{module.func}).

Each @var{arg} is subject to to backreference expansion and
request accessor interpretation, as discussed in @ref{Request
modifications}.

This statement is available only if @command{pound} was built with Lua
support.  @xref{LuaModify}, for a detailed discussion.
@end deffn

@deffn {Service statement} Rewrite [ request | response ] ... End
This block statement associates one or more header modification
directives discussed above with @dfn{conditionals}, so that
request modification takes place only when the request matches certain
conditions.

By default @code{Rewrite} statements apply to incoming requests.  The
subject of rewriting can also be specified explicitly after the
@code{Rewrite} keyword.

@xref{Rewrite}, for a detailed discussion of this statement.

@xref{Conditional branches}, for an in-depth discussion with examples.

@xref{Modifying responses}, for a discussion of the use of this
statement to modify responses.
@end deffn

@deffn {Service directive} RewriteErrors @var{bool}
Enables or disables error response rewriting for that service.
@xref{Error response rewriting}, for a detailed discussion.
@end deffn

@node Service Logging
@subsection Service Logging

@deffn {Service directive} ForwardedHeader "@var{name}"
Defines the name of the HTTP header that carries the list of proxies
the request has passed through.  Default value is
@code{X-Forwarded-For}.  This header is used to determine the originator
IP address for logging.  @xref{%a}, for details.
@end deffn

@deffn {Service directive} TrustedIP
Defines a list of @dfn{trusted proxy} IP addresses, which is used to
determine the originator IP.

@xref{%a}, for a detailed discussion.

This statement is a special form of @code{ACL} statement, described
in @ref{ACL}.  It can appear in three forms: @dfn{anonymous ACL},
@dfn{file reference}, or @dfn{ACL reference}.  Examples:

@enumerate
@item
@example
@group
TrustedIP
  "127.0.0.1/8"
  "10.16.0.0/16"
End
@end group
@end example
@item
@example
TrustedIP -filewatch "/etc/pound/trustip.acl"
@end example
@item
@example
TrustedIP "proxy_addresses"
@end example
@end enumerate
@end deffn

@anchor{LogSuppress}
@deffn {Service directive} LogSuppress @var{class} [@var{class}...]
 Suppresses HTTP logging for requests that resulted in status codes
from the specified classes.  Valid classes are:

@table @asis
@kwindex info, log suppression
@item info
@itemx 1
@samp{1xx} response codes.

@kwindex success, log suppression
@item success
@itemx 2
@samp{2xx} response codes.

@kwindex redirect, log suppression
@item redirect
@itemx 3
@samp{3xx} response codes.

@kwindex clterr, log suppression
@item clterr
@itemx 4
@samp{4xx} response codes.

@kwindex srverr, log suppression
@item srverr
@itemx 5
@samp{5xx} response codes.

@kwindex all, log suppression
@item all
All response codes.
@end table

This statement is designed for services that receive a constant stream
of similar HTTP requests from a controlled set of IP addresses, such
as e.g. Openmetric  services.  @xref{Metrics}, for an example.
@end deffn

@node Backends
@subsection Backends

@menu
* Backend::
* UseBackend::
* Special Backends::
@end menu

@node Backend
@subsubsection Backend
@kwindex Backend
  The @code{Backend} section defines a regular backend.  The overall
syntax, as for any section statement, is:

@example
@group
Backend [ "@var{name}" ]
  @dots{}
End
@end group
@end example

  Optional @var{name} argument assigns a symbolic name to the
service.  That name is used to identify the backend in diagnostic
and access log messages (@pxref{log format, @samp{%@{@var{obj}@}N}}),
metric output (@pxref{Metrics}), and in @command{poundctl}
requests (@pxref{poundctl}).  In the absence of an assigned
@var{name}, the ordinal (0-based) number of the backend in the enclosing
@code{Service} is used as its identifier.

  The following statements can be used in a @code{Backend} section:

@deffn {Backend directive} Address @var{IP}
  IP address or host name of the backend server.  If the name cannot
be resolved to a valid address, @command{pound} will assume that it
represents a path to a Unix-domain socket.

This directive is mandatory.
@end deffn

@deffn {Backend directive} Disabled @var{bool}
Mark this backend as disabled.

Backends can be enabled or disabled at runtime using the
@command{poundctl} utility (@pxref{poundctl commands, enable}).

@emph{Note:} not to be confused with the @code{Disable} statement,
described below.
@end deffn

@deffn {Backend directive} Port @var{n}
Sets the port number to connect to.  This directive must be present if
the @code{Address} statement contains an IP address.
@end deffn

@deffn {Backend directive} Priority @var{n}
Sets numeric priority for this backend.  Priorities are used to
control probability of receiving a request for handling in case of
multiple backends.  @xref{Balancer}, for a detailed discussion.

Allowed values for @var{n} are 1 to 65535.
@end deffn

Following directives configure @dfn{dynamic backends}.  @pxref{Dynamic
backends}, for a detailed discussion:

@deffn {Backend directive} Family @var{name}
Defines the address family to look for when resolving hostnames:

@table @code
@item any
Use all address families available.  This is the default.

@item inet
Use only IPv4 addresses.

@item inet6
Use only IPv6 addresses.
@end table
@end deffn

@deffn {Backend directive} IgnoreSRVWeight @var{bool}
When using @code{SRV} records, ignore their @i{weight} fields.
Instead, copy priority of the producing backend to generated
backends.

This directive is valid when used together with @code{Resolve srv}
(see below).
@end deffn

@deffn {Backend directive} OverrideTTL @var{n}
This directive configures update interval (in seconds) for dynamic
backends (@pxref{Dynamic backends}).  At the end of each update
interval, the DNS be queried and dynamic backends reconfigured (if
needed) according to its responses.  By default, the TTL value
obtained from previous DNS response is used.

To configure the interval to retry failed DNS lookups, see
@code{RetryInterval}, below.
@end deffn

@deffn {Backend directive} Resolve @var{type}
Declares a dynamic backend.  Valid values
for @var{type} are

@table @code
@item first
Resolve the symbolic host name and use first IP from the DNS response
as the address of the created dynamic backend.  Thus, this type will
produce at most one dynamic backend.

@item all
Resolve the symbolic host name and create one backend for each address
from the DNS response.  This enables load balancing between created
backends.  Each backend will be assigned the same priority.

@item srv
Obtain @code{SRV} records for the host name and use them to generate
dynamic backends.  Each record produces new  dynamic backend of
@code{Resolve all} type, which creates regular backends as described
above.  The weight field of the @code{SRV} record is mapped to the priority
field of each generated backend.  The priority field determines the
balancer group where the backend will be hosted.
@end table
@end deffn

@deffn {Backend directive} RetryInterval @var{n}
Retry failed DNS lookups in @var{n} seconds.  Default is 600.

See also the @code{RetryInterval} statement in @code{Resolver} section
(@pxref{resolver}).
@end deffn

The following three directives set various timeout parameters for
backend operations:

@deffn {Backend directive} ConnTO @var{n}
Sets @dfn{connection timeout}, i.e. time to wait for establishing
connection with the backend (in seconds).
@end deffn

@deffn {Backend directive} TimeOut @var{n}
Sets the @dfn{response timeout}, i.e. time to wait for a response from
the backend (in seconds).  Default is 15.
@end deffn

@deffn {Backend directive} WSTimeOut @var{n}
Idle timeout for WebSocket operations, in seconds.  Default value: 600
(10 minutes).
@end deffn

Backend servers can use HTTPS as well as plaintext HTTP.  The
following directives configure HTTPS backends:

@deffn {Backend directive} HTTPS
This directive indicates that the remote server speaks HTTPS.
@end deffn

@deffn {Backend directive} Cert "@var{filename}"
This specifies the certificate that @command{pound} will use as a
client. The @var{filename} is the name of a file containing the
certificate, possibly a certificate chain and the signature.
@end deffn

@deffn {Backend directive} Ciphers "@var{cipherlist}"
This is the list of ciphers that will be accepted by the SSL
connection with the backend (for HTTPS backends); it is a string in the same format as used by the OpenSSL
functions @code{ciphers} and @code{SSL_CTX_set_cipher_list}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Backend directive} Disable @var{proto}
@kwindex SSLv2
@kwindex SSLv3
@kwindex TLSv1
@kwindex TLSv1_1
@kwindex TLSv1_2
Disable the SSL protocol @var{proto} and all earlier protocols.
Allowed values for @var{proto} are: @code{SSLv2}, @code{SSLv3},
@code{TLSv1}, @code{TLSv1_1}, @code{TLSv1_2}.

@emph{Note:} not to be confused with the @code{Disabled} statement,
described above.
@end deffn

@anchor{ServerName}
@deffn {Backend directive} ServerName "@var{name}"
This directive specifies the name to use for server name
identification (@dfn{SNI}).  It also rewrites the @code{Host:} header
for this particular backend.  This means you don't have to use
@code{SetHeader} in addition to it.
@end deffn

@node UseBackend
@subsubsection Globally Defined Backends
  The @code{Backend} section described above can also be used at the
topmost level of the configuration file.  Use this if you plan to use
same backend in several different services.

  When used globally the @code{Backend} keyword must always be
followed by the backend name in double-quotes.  The assigned name must
be unique among all global backends.

  To include a globally defined backend in a service, use
@code{UseBackend} or @code{Backend} keywords.

@deffn {Service directive} UseBackend "@var{name}"
Use globally-defined backend @var{name} in this service.  The backend
itself may be defined in global scope before or after the
@code{Service} section that uses it.
@end deffn

The @code{UseBackend} keyword adds the backend to the service exactly
as it was defined.  However, it may sometimes be necessary to alter
its priority and state.  To do so, use the @code{Backend} section.  If
the name argument specifies a globally-defined backend, the
@code{Backend} section can contain only the @code{Priority} and
@code{Disable} statements.

@node Special Backends
@subsubsection Special Backends
  Special backends are backends that don't rely on an external server
to handle the response, but instead are served by @command{pound}
itself.

@anchor{Error backend}
@deffn {Service directive} Error @var{status} [@var{file}]
Return a particular HTTP status.

The @var{status} argument supplies the HTTP status code to return.

Optional @var{file} argument is the name of a disk file with the error
page content.  If not supplied, the text is determined as usual: first
the @code{ErrorFile @var{status}} statement from the enclosing listener is
consulted.  If it is not present, the default error page is used.

This directive is useful in a catch-all service, which outputs an
error page if no service matching the incoming request was found.
@xref{Error responses}, for a discussion.
@end deffn

@deffn {Service directive} LuaBackend "@var{func}" ["@var{arg}"...]
Run Lua function @var{func} with the supplied arguments.  The function
should set the response code (@pxref{http.resp.code}) and fill
the response body (@pxref{http.resp.body}) prior to returning.
If it fails to do so, @command{pound} will generate a standard 500
response.

The @var{func} can be either an unqualified function name, or function
name with module qualifier (@code{module.func}).

Each @var{arg} is subject to to backreference expansion and
request accessor interpretation, as discussed in @ref{Request modifications}.

This statement is available only if @command{pound} was built with Lua
support.  @xref{LuaBackend}, for a detailed discussion.
@end deffn

@deffn {Service directive} Redirect [@var{code}] "@var{url}"
Declares a special backend that responds to each request with a
redirect response.

Optional @var{code} can be one of: 301, 302 (the default), 303, 307,
or 308.

The @var{url} argument specifies the URL to redirect the request to.
Before use it is expanded as described in @ref{String Expansions}.

For compatibility with previous @command{pound} versions, if no
@samp{$@var{n}} references are found in @var{url}, the following logic
is used: if it is a "pure" host (i.e. with no path) then the client will be
redirected to that host, with the original request path appended. If
the @var{url} does contain a path (even if it is just a @samp{/}),
then the request path is ignored.

@xref{Redirects}, for a detailed discussion of this backend and its use.
@end deffn

@anchor{SendFile}
@deffn {Service directive} SendFile @var{dir}
Defines a special backend that serves static files from directory
@var{dir}.  Name of the file to serve is supplied by the request path,
after applying usual request modifications (@pxref{Request
Modification}).  By default, the response bears @code{Content-Type:
text/plain} header.  To change this, use @code{SetHeader} statement in
response rewriting (@pxref{rewrite response}).

The following example defines a service which will serve requests to
paths beginning with @samp{/about/} from directory
@file{/var/lib/pound/static}.  Name of the file to serve is obtained
by removing the @samp{/about/} prefix from the request pathname.
Content type is set to @samp{text/html}:

@example
Service
    Path -re "/about/(.+)"
    SetPath "$1"
    Rewrite response
         SetHeader "Content-Type: text/html"
    End
    SendFile "/var/lib/pound/static"
End
@end example

If @var{dir} is not an absolute file name, it is resolved relative to
@command{pound} include directory (@pxref{include directory}).
@end deffn

@deffn {Service directive} Control
Defines a special backend that serves @dfn{pound management
interface}.  @xref{Service Control}, for a detailed discussion of this
feature.
@end deffn

@anchor{Metrics}
@deffn {Service directive} Metrics
This directive defines a special backend that generates Openmetric
telemetry output on the given URL.  Example usage:

@example
@group
Service
    URL "/metrics"
    Metrics
End
@end group
@end example

To control access to the telemetry endpoint, use the @code{ACL}
statement (@pxref{ACL}).

The @code{LogSuppress} directive (@pxref{LogSuppress}) is often used
in openmetric services to suppress logging of served HTTP requests:

@example
@group
Service
    URL "/metrics"
    Metrics
    ACL "secure"
    LogSuppress success
End
@end group
@end example

The metrics output is discussed in @ref{Metric Families}.
@end deffn

@anchor{Emergency}
@deffn {Service directive} Emergency ... End
Defines an @dfn{emergency backend}, which will be used only if all
other backends become unavailable.  @xref{Backend}, for a discussion
of directives that can be used within @code{Emergency} section.

If multiple @code{Emergency} sections are defined, an emergency
backend to use will be selected using the usual balancing technique
(@pxref{Balancer}).
@end deffn

@node Session
@subsection Session

@deffn {Service directive} Session ... End
Defines how a service deals with possible HTTP sessions.  Once a
session is identified, @command{pound} will attempt to send all
requests within that session to the same backend server.

@xref{Sessions}, for a detailed discussion of HTTP sessions and their
handling.
@end deffn

The following directives are available for use in @code{Session}
section.

@deffn {Session directive} Type @var{type}
Defines the expected type of sessions to handle.  Allowed values for
@var{type} are:

@table @code
@kwindex IP, session type
@item IP
A session is defined by the source IP.  All requests coming from the
same IP are considered to be in the same session.  The IP address is
defined by the @code{ID} statement (see below).

@kwindex BASIC, session type
@item BASIC
A session is defined by the @code{Authentication} HTTP header.  If the
header is present, and specifies the @samp{Basic} authentication type,
user ID is extracted from it.

@kwindex URL, session type
@item URL
A session is identified by the value of a particular query parameter.
The name of the parameter is given by the @code{ID} statement.

@kwindex PARAM, session type
@item PARM
Sessions are identified by HTTP parameter - a string that appears
after a semicolon in the URL, such as @samp{bar} in
@indicateurl{http://foo.com;bar}.

@kwindex COOKIE, session type
@item COOKIE
Sessions are identified by the value of an HTTP cookie, whose name is
given by the @code{ID} directive.

@kwindex HEADER, session type
@item HEADER
Sessions are identified by the value of HTTP header whose name is
given by the @code{ID} directive.
@end table
@end deffn

@deffn {Session directive} ID "@var{name}"
Specifies the @dfn{session identifier}: IP address (for @code{Type
IP}), query parameter name (for @code{Type URL}), cookie name (for
@code{Type COOKIE}), or header name (for @code{Type HEADER}).
@end deffn

@deffn {Session directive} TTL @var{n}
How long can a session be idle (in seconds). A session that has been idle for
longer than the specified number of seconds will be discarded.
This directive is mandatory.
@end deffn

@node Other Statements
@subsection Other Statements

@deffn {Service directive} Disabled @var{bool}
If @code{true}, mark this service as disabled.  Disabled services are
not used for request processing.  A service can be enabled or disabled
at runtime using the @command{poundctl} utility
(@pxref{poundctl commands, enable}).
@end deffn

@deffn {Service directive} Balancer @var{algo}
Sets the request balancing algorithm to use.  Allowed values for
@var{algo} are:

@table @asis
@item random
Use weighted random balancing algorithm.

@item iwrr
Use interleaved weighted round robin balancing.
@end table

@xref{Balancer}, for a detailed discussion of these algorithms.

This statement overrides the global @code{Balancer} statement
(@pxref{Global directives, Balancer}).
@end deffn

@deffn {Service directive} IgnoreCase @var{bool}
Ignore case when doing regex matching (default: @samp{false}).  This
directive sets the default for the following service matching
directives: @code{URL}, @code{Path}, @code{QueryParam}, @code{Query},
@code{StringMatch}, as well as for the @code{DeleteHeader}
modification directive.

This statement is deprecated and will be removed in future versions.
Please, use the @option{-icase} option with the conditional directive
instead (@pxref{conditional-option}).
@end deffn

@node resolver
@section Resolver
@kwindex Resolver
  The @code{Resolver} section controls DNS lookups for dynamic backend
generation (@pxref{Dynamic backends}).  It can contain the following
directives:

@deffn {Resolver} CNAMEChain @var{n}
@cindex CNAME chains
Maximum allowed length of a @dfn{CNAME chain}.  CNAME chains are
formed by DNS CNAME records pointing to another CNAME.  Although
prohibited by the RFC, such usage occurs sometimes in the wild.
By default, @command{pound} does not accept CNAME chains.  If you work
with nameservers that declare such chains, set this statement to a
small integer value, defining maximum number of CNAME records in the
chain that @command{pound} will accept.  The value of 2 or 3 should
suffice in most cases.
@end deffn

@deffn {Resolver} ConfigFile @var{file}
@findex resolv.conf
Read resolver configuration from @var{file}.  Default is
@file{/etc/resolv.conf}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Resolver} ConfigText ... End
The material within this section is read verbatim and used as the
content of the resolver configuration file.  E.g.:

@example
@group
Resolver
        ConfigText
                domain example.org
                nameserver 192.0.2.1
                nameserver 192.0.2.4
        End
End
@end group
@end example

If both @code{ConfigFile} and @code{ConfigText} are used, the last
statement used wins.
@end deffn

@deffn {Resolver} Debug @var{bool}
If set to @code{true}, enables DNS debugging info.
@end deffn

@deffn {Resolver} RetryInterval @var{n}
Interval in seconds, after which to retry failed DNS queries or
queries that returned no RRs.  This value is used unless the backend
defines its own retry interval value.
@end deffn

@node poundctl
@chapter poundctl
  The @command{poundctl} command displays status of various objects of
the running instance and allows you to change some of them.

  The program communicates with the running @command{pound} daemon via
a UNIX socket or remotely, via HTTP or HTTPS.  The URL of the
communication socket can be given explicitly by the @option{-s}
command line option, or obtained from @command{poundctl} or
@command{pound} configuration files.

  If the @file{.poundctl} exists in the home directory, the
configuration will be obtained from it.  Otherwise, if
@command{poundctl} runs on the same machine as the @command{pound}
daemon and communicates with it via the UNIX socket, the program will
scan the @file{pound.cfg} file for the @code{Control} statement
(@pxref{Control statement}) and read the socket file name from it.
These ways of configuring @command{poundctl} are discussed below,
in @ref{poundctl config}.  In examples below, it is assumed that the
socket URL is obtained from one of configuration files.

  The program invocation syntax is:

@example
poundctl [@var{options}] @var{command} @var{object} [@var{arg}]
@end example

@noindent
Here, @var{options} are command line options, @var{command} is a
command verb that instructs @command{poundctl} what to do,
@var{object} identifies the @command{pound} object to operate upon
(@pxref{objects}), and optional @var{arg} supplies argument to the
command verb.

  Pound objects identifiers are formed in a path-like fashion:

@example
/@var{listener}/@var{service}/@var{backend}
@end example

@noindent
where:

@table @var
@item listener
Symbolic name of the listener or its ordinal number in the
configuration.  If referring to a globally-defined service, or to a
backend in such a service, a dash is used.

@item service
Symbolic name or ordinal number of the service located in that listener.

@item backend
Ordinal number of backend in the service.
@end table

Depending on the command, either @samp{/@var{backend}} or both
@samp{/@var{service}/@var{backend}} may be omitted.

For example, the following command will disable backend 2 in service 1 of
listener 0:

@example
poundctl disable /0/1/2
@end example

Assuming listener 0 is named @samp{web}, this example can also be
written as:

@example
poundctl disable /web/1/2
@end example

The following command disables the listener 0 itself:

@example
poundctl disable /0
@end example

A dash in place of @var{listener} refers to the global scope.  Thus,
the following disables service 1 defined in the global scope of
@file{pound.cfg}:

@example
poundctl disable /-/1
@end example

@menu
* poundctl commands::
* poundctl remote::
* poundctl config::
* poundctl options::
* poundctl template::
@end menu

@node poundctl commands
@section @command{poundctl} commands

@deffn {poundctl} core
Display core statistics.  By default, it includes: server time,
@command{pound} daemon version, uptime, and PID, and worker thread
statistics.
@end deffn

@deffn {poundctl} list /@var{L}/@var{S}/@var{B}
@deffnx {poundctl} list /@var{L}/@var{S}
@deffnx {poundctl} list /@var{L}
@deffnx {poundctl} list
@anchor{poundctl list}
Lists status of the given object and its subordinates.  Without
argument, shows core statistics (see above), all listeners and
underlying objects, as well as all standalone services.
@end deffn

@deffn {poundctl} enable /@var{L}/@var{S}/@var{B}
@deffnx {poundctl} enable /@var{L}/@var{S}
@deffnx {poundctl} enable /@var{L}
@deffnx {poundctl} on /@var{L}/@var{S}/@var{B}
@deffnx {poundctl} on /@var{L}/@var{S}
@deffnx {poundctl} on /@var{L}
Enables listener, service, or backend.
@end deffn

@deffn {poundctl} disable /@var{L}/@var{S}/@var{B}
@deffnx {poundctl} disable /@var{L}/@var{S}
@deffnx {poundctl} disable /@var{L}
@deffnx {poundctl} off /@var{L}/@var{S}/@var{B}
@deffnx {poundctl} off /@var{L}/@var{S}
@deffnx {poundctl} off /@var{L}
Disables listener, service, or backend.
@end deffn

@deffn {poundctl} delete /@var{L}/@var{S} @var{key}
Delete the session with the given key.  Notice that backend may not
be specified.
@end deffn

@deffn {poundctl} add /@var{L}/@var{S}/@var{B} @var{key}
Add a session with the given @var{key}.
@end deffn

@node poundctl remote
@section Using @command{poundctl} for remote access
  Starting from version 4.14, @command{pound} is able to provide its
management interface via HTTP (@pxref{Service Control}).  To use
remote management interface, supply its URL with the @option{-s}
command line option.  The URL syntax is:

@example
@var{scheme}://[@var{user}[:@var{password}]@@]@var{hostname}[:@var{port}][/@var{path}]
@end example

@noindent
where @samp{[]} denote optional parts.  Valid @var{scheme} values are
@samp{http} and @samp{https}.  Use @var{user} and @var{password} if
the interface is protected by basic authentication (@pxref{Authentication}).

When using @samp{https} protocol, you may need to supply the
@dfn{certificate authority} file using the @option{-C @var{file}}
option, where @var{file} is the name of the file in PEM format.  This
option can also take a directory name as its argument.  In this case
all PEM files from that directory will be loaded.

To disable peer certificate verification, use the @option{-k} option.

If @command{pound} configuration requires the client to send its
certificate for authentication (@xref{ClientCert}, or
@pxref{ClientCert conditional}), use the
@option{-K @var{file}} option to supply it.  Its argument, @var{file},
is the name of the file with the certificate and key in PEM format.

@node poundctl config
@section Configuring @command{poundctl}
@findex .poundctl
@kwindex POUNDCTL_CONF
  Upon startup, the program checks if the file @file{.poundctl} exists
in the user's home directory.  If so, it reads its configuration from
it.  The location of the configuration file can be changed using the
environment variable @env{POUNDCTL_CONF}.  If it is defined and has a
non-empty value, its value is taken as the alternative file name to
use.  It can be either absolute file name, or a file name relative to
the home directory.  Setting @env{POUNDCTL_CONF} to an empty value
disables reading the configuration.

  If the program cannot determine the socket URL from
@file{.poundctl}, it will attempt to scan @command{pound}
configuration file, on the assumption that it runs on the same machine
as the daemon and that its @file{pound.cfg} file contains a
@code{Control} statement (@pxref{Control statement}).  If so, the
socket name is determined from it.

  Otherwise, the control URL has to be given explicitly using the
@option{-s} command line option.

  The @file{.poundctl} file has the same syntax as @file{pound.cfg}:
it is a sequence of @dfn{statements} and @dfn{sections}, separated by
arbitrary amount of empty lines and comments.  A @dfn{simple
statement} occupies a single line and consists of a keyword
(@dfn{directive}) and one or more values separated by whitespace.  A
@dfn{section} is a compound statement that encloses other statements
and sections.  Sections begin with a keyword, optionally followed by
arguments, and end with a word @code{End} on a line by itself.  All
keywords are case-insensitive.

The following keywords are available in the global scope:

@deffn {poundctl config} URL "@var{url}"
Sets the URL of the @command{pound} management socket.  The value is
either the file name of the UNIX socket file, or a remote URL, as
described in @ref{poundctl remote}.
@end deffn

@deffn {poundctl config} CAFile "@var{file}"
Name of the certificate authority file.  See also the @option{-C}
option, below.
@end deffn

@deffn {poundctl config} CAPath "@var{dir}"
Read certificate authority files from the directory @var{dir}.
@end deffn

@deffn {poundctl config} ClientCert "@var{file}"
Supplies the name of the file with client certificate and private key,
for client authentication.  See also the @option{-K} option, below.
@end deffn

@deffn {poundctl config} Verify @var{bool}
Enables or disables peer certificate verification.  The default is
@code{on}.  See also the @option{-k} command line option.
@end deffn

@deffn {poundctl config} TemplateFile "@var{file}"
Name of the template file (@pxref{poundctl template}).
@end deffn

@deffn {poundctl config} TemplatePath "@var{file}"
Search path for template files (@pxref{poundctl template}).
@end deffn

@deffn {poundctl config} TemplateName "@var{name}"
Name of the template to use (@pxref{poundctl template}).
@end deffn

@menu
* multiple servers::
@end menu

@node multiple servers
@subsection Multiple Servers Configuration
@kwindex Server, @command{poundctl} configuration
@kwindex -S, @command{poundctl} option
  The @code{Server} section provides a way to organize management
of multiple @command{pound} servers.  The idea is that you define
the configuration for each particular @command{pound} installation
in a separate @code{Server} section, and then use the name of that
section to identify the server of interest in the command line, using
the @option{-S} option:

@example
poundctl -S web list
@end example

  The syntax of the @code{Server} section is:

@example
@group
Server "@var{name}"
  ...
End
@end group
@end example

@noindent
where @var{name} is a unique name assigned to that server.  It will be
used as argument to the @option{-S} option to identify it.  The
ellipsis denotes one or more of the following statements:

@deffn {poundctl Server} URL @var{url}
Sets the URL of the @command{pound} management socket for that server.
The value is either the file name of the UNIX socket file, or a remote
URL, as described in @ref{poundctl remote}.
@end deffn

@deffn {poundctl Server} CAFile @var{file}
Name of the certificate authority file.
@end deffn

@deffn {poundctl Server} CAPath @var{dir}
Read certificate authority files from the directory @var{dir}.
@end deffn

@deffn {poundctl Server} ClientCert @var{file}
Supplies the name of the file with client certificate and private key,
for client authentication to that server.
@end deffn

@deffn {poundctl Server} Verify @var{bool}
Enables or disables peer certificate verification.  The default is
@code{on}.
@end deffn

@node poundctl options
@section @command{poundctl} options
  The following options are understood by @command{poundctl}:

@table @option
@kwindex -C, poundctl
@item -C @var{file}
@itemx -C @var{dir}
Read certificate authority files from @var{file} or from files in
@var{dir}.  @xref{poundctl remote}.  This overrides the @code{CAFile}
or @code{CAPath} configuration settings (@pxref{poundctl config}).

@kwindex -f, poundctl
@item -f @var{file}
Read @command{pound} configuration from @var{file}, instead of the
default configuration file.

@kwindex -i, poundctl
@item -i @var{n}
Sets indentation level for JSON output to @var{n} columns.

@kwindex -j, poundctl
@item -j
Use JSON output format.

@kwindex -K, poundctl
@item -K @var{file}
Read client certificate and private key from @var{file}.
@xref{poundctl remote}.  This option overrides the @code{ClientCert}
configuration setting (@pxref{poundctl config}).

@kwindex -k
@item -k
Disable peer certificate verification.  @xref{poundctl remote}.
This overrides the @code{Verify} configuration setting
(@pxref{poundctl config}).

@kwindex -h, poundctl
@item -h
Shows a short help output and exits.

@kwindex -S, poundctl
@item -S @var{name}
Operate on server defined by @code{Section "@var{name}"} in the
@file{.poundctl} file.  @xref{multiple servers}, for a detailed
discussion.

@kwindex -s, poundctl
@item -s @var{socket}
@itemx -s @var{url}
Sets pathname of the control socket, or its URL (for remote access,
@pxref{poundctl remote}).  This overrides the @code{URL} configuration
setting (@pxref{poundctl config}).

@kwindex -T, poundctl
@item -T @var{file}
Sets the name of the template file to use.  Overrides the
@code{TemplateFile} configuration setting (@pxref{poundctl config}).

@kwindex -t, poundctl
@item -t @var{name}
Defines the name of the template to use, instead of the
@samp{default}.  This overrides the @code{TemplateName} configuration
setting (@pxref{poundctl config}).

@kwindex -V, poundctl
@item -V
Prints program version, compilation settings, and exits.

@kwindex -v, poundctl
@item -v
Increases output verbosity level.
@end table

@node poundctl template
@section @command{poundctl} template
  Information received from the @command{pound} daemon is formatted as
a JSON object.  To produce human-readable output, @command{poundctl}
uses a @dfn{template}, i.e. a text written in a domain-specific
language expressly designed for that purpose.  The template language
complies, in general, with the specification in
@uref{https://pkg.go.dev/text/template}.  @xref{Template syntax},
for a detailed description.

@cindex poundctl.tmpl
@cindex template search path
@cindex search path, templates
Templates are stored in template files, which are looked up in the
template search path.  The path is a column-delimited list of
directories or file names.  To locate the template file, the
path is scanned left-to right.  If an element is a regular file name
(or a hard or symbolic link to a regular file), @command{poundctl}
tries to open that file.  If an element is a directory name,
the program tries to open the file @file{poundctl.tmpl}
in that directory.  If opening succeeds, further scanning stops and templates
are read from that file.

The default template path is

@example
~/.poundctl.tmpl:@var{datadir}/pound
@end example

@noindent
where @var{datadir} stands for the program data directory@footnote{It
is determined at compile time.  Normally it is @file{/usr/share/pound}
or @file{/usr/local/share/pound}.}.  That is, the file
@file{.poundctl.tmpl} in the user home directory is searched first,
then the file @file{poundctl.tmpl} (without the leading dot) is looked
up in the program data directory.

@kwindex POUND_TMPL_PATH
The default search path can be changed in the configuration file,
using the @code{TemplatePath} statement (@pxref{poundctl config}), or
by setting the environment variable @env{POUND_TMPL_PATH}.

To examine the default value of the search path, use the @option{-V}
command line option.

The template file to use can be requested from the command line using the
@option{-t} option (or @code{TemplateFile} configuration setting).  In
this case, template search path in not searched and the supplied file
is used verbatim.

Unless instructed otherwise, @command{poundctl} uses the template
@samp{default}.  You can request another template name using the
@code{TemplateName} configuration setting or the @option{-T} command
line option.

The default @file{poundctl.tmpl} file defines two templates:
@samp{default} and @samp{xml}.

@menu
* Template syntax::
* Pipelines::
* Variables::
* Input object::
@end menu

@node Template syntax
@subsection Template syntax
@cindex syntax, template
  The syntax of @command{poundctl} templates is modelled after and mostly
conforming to the specifications of the @command{golang} template
module@footnote{@url{https://pkg.go.dev/text/template}}.

@cindex dot
Templates are executed by applying them to a JSON object.  Annotations
in a template refer to attributes of the object to control execution
and derive values to be displayed.  Execution of the template walks
the structure and sets the cursor, represented by a period (called
@dfn{dot}), to the value at the current location in the object as
execution proceeds.

The input text for a template is as ASCII text is arbitrary format.

Actions (data evaluations or control structures) are delimited by
@samp{@{@{} and @samp{@}@}}; all text outside actions is copied to the
output verbatim.

To aid in formatting template source code, if @samp{@{@{} is followed
immediately by a minus sign and white space, all trailing white space
is trimmed from the immediately preceding text.  Similarly, if
@samp{@}@}} is preceded by white space and a minus sign, all leading
white space is trimmed from the immediately following text.  Notice that the
presence of the whitespace in these trim markers is mandatory:
@samp{@{@{- 3@}@}} trims the immediately preceding text and outputs
@samp{3}, while "@samp{@{@{-3@}@}} parses as an action containing the
number @samp{-3}.

@menu
* Actions::
* Arguments::
@end menu

@node Actions
@subsubsection Actions
Here is the list of actions.  @dfn{Arguments} and @dfn{pipelines}
are evaluations of data, defined in detail in the sections that follow.

@table @code
@item @{@{ @}@}
Empty action is discarded.  It may be useful to trim the preceding or
following whitespace, as in

@example
@{@{- -@}@}
@end example

@cindex comments, template
@item @{@{/* a comment */@}@}
Comments are discarded.  They may span multiple lines of text.
Comments do not nest and must start immediately after the opening
delimiter (with optional dash and whitespace in between).  A comment
may be followed by any action described below.

Comments may be used to control trailing and leading whitespace as
well:

@example
@{@{- a comment trimming the surrounding whitespace -@}@}
@end example

@cindex pipeline
@item @{@{ @var{pipeline} @}@}
The @var{pipeline} is evaluated, and the default textual
representation of its value is copied to the output.

@kwindex if
@item @{@{if @var{pipeline} @}@} @var{T1} @{@{end@}@}
If the value of the @var{pipeline} is empty, no output is generated;
otherwise, @var{T1} is executed.  The empty values are @code{null},
@code{false}, numeric 0, empty string (@samp{""}),
array (@samp{[]}), or object (@samp{@{@}}).  Dot is unaffected.

@kwindex else
@item @{@{if @var{pipeline} @}@} @var{T1} @{@{else@}@} @var{T0} @{@{end@}@}
If the value of the pipeline is empty, @var{T0} is executed;
otherwise, @var{T1} is executed. Dot is unaffected.

@item @{@{if @var{pipeline} @}@} @var{T1} @{@{else if @var{pipeline} @}@} @var{T2} @{@{else@}@} @var{T0} @{@{end@}@}
A shortcut to simplify writing the if-else chains.  Equivalent to
(newlines added for readability):

@example
@group
@{@{if @var{pipeline} @}@}
  T1
@{@{else -@}@}
 @{@{if @var{pipeline} @}@}
   T2
 @{@{else@}@}
   T0
 @{@{end@}@}
@{@{end@}@}
@end group
@end example

@kwindex range
@item @{@{range @var{pipeline} @}@} @var{T1} @{@{end@}@}
The value of @var{pipeline} must be an object or array.  If it is of
length zero, nothing is output.  Otherwise, dot is set to the
successive elements of the array or object and @var{T1}
is executed.  For objects, the elements will be	visited in sorted key
order.

@item @{@{range @var{pipeline} @}@} @var{T1} @{@{else@}@} @var{T0} @{@{end@}@}
Same as above, except that if the value of the @var{pipeline} is of
length zero, @var{T0} is executed with dot unaffected.

Within the @code{@{@{range@}@}} action, the following two keywords may
appear:

@table @code
@kwindex break
@item @{@{break@}@}
The innermost @samp{@{@{range @var{pipeline}@}@}} loop is ended early,
stopping the current iteration and bypassing all remaining iterations.

@kwindex define
@item @{@{continue@}@}
The current iteration of the innermost @samp{@{@{range @var{pipeline}@}@}}
loop is stopped, and the loop starts the next iteration.
@end table

@kwindex define
@item @{@{define "@var{name}"@}@} @var{text} @{@{end@}@}
The @var{text} is collected and stored for the further use as template
with the given @var{name}.  It can be invoked using the
@samp{@{@{template@}@}} action (see below).

@kwindex template
@item @{@{template "@var{name}"@}@}
The template with the specified @var{name} (see the @samp{@{@{define@}@}}
above) is executed with dot set to @code{null}.

@item @{@{template "@var{name}" @var{value} @}@}
The template with the specified @var{name} (see the @samp{@{@{define@}@}}
above) is executed with dot set to @var{value}.

@kwindex block
@item @{@{block "@var{name}" @var{pipeline} @}@} @var{T1} @{@{end@}@}
A block is shorthand for defining a template and then executing it in
place:

@example
@{@{define "@var{name}"@}@} @var{T1} @{@{end@}@}
@{@{template "@var{name}" @var{pipeline}@}@}
@end example

@kwindex with
@item @{@{with @var{pipeline} @}@} @var{T1} @{@{end@}@}
If the value of the @var{pipeline} is empty, no output is generated;
otherwise, dot is set to the value of the @var{pipeline} and @var{T1} is
executed.

@item @{@{with @var{pipeline} @}@} @var{T1} @{@{else@}@} @var{T0} @{@{end@}@}
Same as above, but if the value of the @var{pipeline} is empty,
@var{T0} is executed with dot unchanged.
@end table

@node Arguments
@subsubsection Arguments
An @dfn{argument} is a simple value, i.e. any of the following:

@itemize @bullet
@item Numeric value (integer or floating point)
@item Boolean value: @code{true} or @code{false}.
@item Quoted string.
@item A dot (@samp{.})
This represents the cursor value.
@item Attribute: @samp{.@var{attr}}
This is the value of the attribute @var{attr} in the current value
(dot).
Attribute references can be nested, as in @samp{.Attr.Xattr.Yattr}.
@item A variable reference: @samp{$@var{var}}.
Here, @var{var} is the name of the variable defined in the @code{range}
action.  @xref{Variables}, below.

@item Function call in parentheses, for grouping.
@end itemize

@node Pipelines
@subsection Pipelines
  A @dfn{pipeline} is a series of one or more @dfn{commands} delimited
by pipe sign (@samp{|}).  Each @dfn{command} is either an argument or
a @dfn{function call}, in form:

@example
@var{func} @var{arg1} @var{arg2}...
@end example

@noindent
where @var{func} is the name of one of the built-in functions
discussed below.

Pipelines are executed from left to right, with the result of the
previous command implicitly added to the list of arguments of each
subsequent command.  For example, the pipeline

@example
.attr | eq $x
@end example

@noindent
is equivalent to

@example
eq $x .attr
@end example

@noindent
i.e. it calls the built-in function @code{eq} with two arguments: the
value of the variable @samp{x} and attribute @samp{attr} of the cursor
value.

The following built-in functions are defined:

@deffn {Template built-in} and A1 A2
Evaluates to @code{true} if pipelines @var{A1} and @var{A2} both
evaluate to @code{true}.  Notice, that there is no boolean shortcut
evaluation: both pipelines are evaluated prior to calling @code{and}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Template built-in} or A1 A2
Evaluates to @code{true} if at least one of the pipelines @var{A1} and
@var{A2} evaluates to @code{true}.  Notice, that there is no boolean
shortcut evaluation: both pipelines are evaluated prior to calling @code{or}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Template built-in} index A1 A2...
Returns the result of indexing its first argument by the following
arguments.  Thus, if @samp{.} is an array, then:

@example
index . 5
@end example

@noindent
evaluates to its fifth element (@samp{.[5]}).
@end deffn

@deffn {Template built-in} len A1
Returns the integer length of its argument.
@end deffn

@deffn {Template built-in} not A1
Returns @code{true} if its argument evaluates to @code{false}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Template built-in} eq A1 A2
Returns @code{true} if both its arguments are equal.  This applies only
if both @var{A1} and @var{A2} are numeric or if they both are strings.
@end deffn

@deffn {Template built-in} ne A1 A2
Returns @code{true} if its arguments (both must be numeric or strings)
are not equal.
@end deffn

@deffn {Template built-in} lt A1 A2
Returns @code{true} if @var{A1} is numerically less than @var{A2}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Template built-in} le A1 A2
Returns @code{true} if @var{A1} is numerically less than or equal to @var{A2}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Template built-in} gt A1 A2
Returns @code{true} if @var{A1} is numerically greater than @var{A2}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Template built-in} ge A1 A2
Returns @code{true} if @var{A1} is numerically greater than or equal
to @var{A2}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Template built-in} even A1
Returns @code{true} if @var{A1}, which must evaluate to an integer
value, is divisible by 2.
@end deffn

@deffn {Template built-in} printf FMT A1...
Implements the @code{printf} function.  @var{FMT} must evaluate to
string.  Rest of arguments is interpreted according to the conversion
specifications in @var{FMT}.  The result is a formatted string.

In addition to the standard conversion specifications, the @samp{%v}
specifier is implemented: it formats its argument in the best
way, depending on its actual type.
@end deffn

@deffn {Template built-in} typeof A1
Evaluates to the type of its argument, one of:
@code{null}, @code{bool}, @code{number}, @code{integer}, @code{string},
@code{array}, and @code{object}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Template built-in} exists A1 A2
@var{A1} must evaluate to an object and @var{A2} to string.  The
function evaluates to @code{true} if the attribute @var{A2} is present
in @var{A1}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Template built-in} add A1 A2...
Returns the sum of its arguments.
@end deffn

@deffn {Template built-in} sub A1 A2
Returns the difference @code{@var{A1} - @var{A2}}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Template built-in} mul A1 A2
Multiplies @var{A1} by @var{A2}.
@end deffn

@deffn {Template built-in} div A1 A2
Divides @var{A1} by @var{A2}.
@end deffn

@node Variables
@subsection Variables
 Variables (referred to as @code{$@var{name}}) can be defined in
@code{range} and @code{with} actions.  For @code{range}, the syntax is:

@example
@{@{range $@var{index}, $@var{element} = @var{pipeline} @}@} @var{T1} @{@{end@}@}
@end example

@noindent
where @var{index} and @var{element} are arbitrary variable names.
When executing this action, during each iteration @var{$index} and
@var{$element} are set to the index (attribute name) and value of
each successive element.  Dot remains unaffected.

For @code{with}, the syntax is:

@example
@{@{with $@var{var} = @var{pipeline} @}@} @var{T1} @{@{end@}@}
@end example

@var{Pipeline} is evaluated, its result is assigned to @var{$var} and
the @var{T1} block is executed with dot unchanged.

A variable's scope extends to the @code{end} action of the control
structure (@code{with} or @code{range}) in which it is declared.  This
includes any nested statements that may appear in between.

@node Input object
@subsection Input object
Depending on the request issued by @command{poundctl}, the invoked template
can receive as its argument (@dfn{dot}) an object of one of the following
types: @dfn{core}, @dfn{full listing}, @dfn{listener}, @dfn{service},
or @dfn{backend}.  Each object carries an explicit indication of its
type in its @code{kind} attribute.  Its possible values are:

@table @samp
@item core
Core statistics.
@item pound
Full listing.
@item listener
Listener statistics.
@item service
Service statistics.
@item backend
Backend statistics.
@end table

Structures of each object are discussed in subsections that follow.

@menu
* Core listing::
* Full listing::
* Listener object::
* Service object::
* Backend object::
@end menu

@node Core listing
@subsubsection Core listing
A @dfn{core} object describes core @command{pound} configuration.  It
contains the following attributes:

@table @code
@item kind
Identifies the core listing object.  Its value is @samp{core}.

@item pid
PID of the running @command{pound} daemon.

@item version
@command{Pound} version number (string).

@item workers
Workers statistics.  This is a JSON object with the following
attributes:

@table @code
@item active
Number of active threads.

@item count
Number of threads currently running.

@item max
Maximum number of threads.

@item min
Minimum number of threads.

@item timeout
Thread idle timeout.
@end table

@item queue_len
Number of incoming HTTP requests in the queue (integer).

@item timestamp
Current time on the server, formatted as ISO 8601 date-time with
microsecond precision, e.g.: @samp{2023-01-05T22:43:18.071559}.

@item uptime
Total running time of @command{pound} daemon: number of
microseconds elapsed since its startup.
@end table

@node Full listing
@subsubsection Full listing
A full listing contains the following attributes.

@table @code
@item kind
Identifies the full listing object.  The value if this attribute is
@samp{pound}.

@item core
Core listing.  @xref{Core listing}.

@item listeners
An array of @dfn{listener} objects.  See below for a description.

@item services
An array of @dfn{service} objects, representing services defined in
the global scope of the @command{pound} configuration file.
@end table

@node Listener object
@subsubsection Listener
A @dfn{listener} object represents a single HTTP or HTTPS listener in
@command{pound} configuration.  It has the following attributes:

@table @code
@item kind
Identifies the listener object.  The value of this attribute is
@samp{listener}.

@item address
Address of this listener.  A string formatted as @samp{@var{ip}:@var{port}}.
for IPv4 and IPv6 addresses or containing a socket file name, for UNIX
sockets.

@item protocol
Protocol used: either @samp{http} or @samp{https}.

@item services
Array of @dfn{service} objects representing services defined in this
listener.  See below for the definition of a @dfn{service} object.

@item enabled
Boolean. Whether this listener is enabled or not.

@item nohttps11
Value of the @code{NoHTTPS11} configuration statement for this
listener (@pxref{ListenHTTPS, NoHTTPS11}).  One of: 0, 1, 2.
@end table

@node Service object
@subsubsection Service
  A @dfn{service} object describes a single service.

@table @code
@item kind
Identifies the service object.  The value of this attribute is
@samp{service}.

@item name
Symbolic name of this service.

@item enabled
Boolean.  Whether this service is enabled or not.

@item session_type
Name of the session handling algorithm for this service.  One of:
@samp{IP}, @samp{BASIC}, @samp{URL}, @samp{PARM}, @samp{COOKIE},
@samp{HEADER}.

@item sessions
List of active sessions in this service.  Each session is represented
as object with the following attributes:

@table @code
@item key
Session key (string).

@item backend
Ordinal number of the backend assigned to handle requests with this session.

@item expire
Expiration time of this session, formatted as
@samp{1970-01-01T00:00:00.000000} (with microsecond precision).
@end table

@item backends
List of @dfn{backends} defined for this service.

@item emergency
Emergency @dfn{backend} object, or @code{null} if no such backend is
defined.
@end table

@node Backend object
@subsubsection Backend
The following attributes are always present in each @dfn{backend} object:

@table @code
@item kind
Identifies the backend object.  The value of this attribute is
@samp{backend}.

@item alive
Whether or not this backend is alive.

@item conn_to
Connection timeout for this backend (seconds).

@item enabled
Whether or not this backend is enabled.

@item io_to
I/O timeout for this backend (seconds).

@item priority
Priority value assigned to this backend.

@item protocol
Protocol used by this backend: either @samp{http} or @samp{https}.

@item type
Backend type.  One of: @samp{acme}, @samp{backend}, @samp{control},
@samp{redirect}.

@item ws_to
Websocket timeout (seconds).
@end table

Depending on the backend type, the following attributes may be
present:

@table @code
@item acme
An object of the following structure:

@table @code
@item path
Directory where ACME challenges are stored.
@end table

@item backend
Object:
@table @code
@item address
Backend address.
@end table

@item redirect
Object:
@table @code
@item url
URL to redirect to.
@item code
HTTP code for redirection responses.  One of: 301, 302, 307.
@item redir_req
Boolean: whether to append the original request path to the resulting location.
@end table
@end table

If backend statistics is enabled (@pxref{BackendStats}),
the @code{stats} object will be present, with the following attributes:

@table @code
@item request_count
Total number of requests processed by this backend.
@item request_time_avg
Average time per request, in nanoseconds.
@item request_time_stddev
Standard deviation of the above.
@end table

@node Emacs
@chapter Emacs Major Mode
@cindex Emacs
@findex pound-mode.el
@anchor{pound-mode}
@command{Pound} is distributed with @file{pound-mode.el}, an elisp
source which provides a major mode for editing @command{pound}
configuration files in GNU Emacs.  The file is located in @file{src}
directory of the distribution.  To install it, follow the instructions
below.

First, select the directory where to place the file.  The directory
must form a part of the @command{emacs} @code{load-path}
(@pxref{Library Search,,, elisp, GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual})
variable.  Then, copy @file{pound-mode.el} to that directory.  Then,
add the following statements to your @file{.emacs} or site-wide
@file{site-start.el} file (@pxref{Init File, The Emacs Initialization
File,,emacs,GNU Emacs Manual}):

@lisp
@group
(autoload 'pound-mode "pound-mode")
(add-to-list 'auto-mode-alist
             (cons (purecopy "pound\\.cfg\\'") 'pound-mode))
@end group
@end lisp

The first statement loads @code{pound} Emacs major mode.  The
second one associates file @file{pound.cfg} with that mode, so that
each time you load a file with that name to your editor, it will
automatically select @code{pound-mode} as its default major mode.
Depending on your customs, you may further modify
@code{auto-mode-alist} to associate @code{pound-mode} with more
files.  For example, if your main configuration file includes
files from @file{/etc/pound} directory (@pxref{File inclusion}), it
might be a good idea to add the following:

@lisp
@group
(add-to-list 'auto-mode-alist
   (cons (purecopy "pound/.*\\.cfg\\'") 'pound-mode))
@end group
@end lisp

Once these changes done, you can start @command{emacs} to see if it
correctly selects the major mode for your @command{pound.cfg}.

The @code{pound-mode} major mode highlights @command{pound}
configuration keywords and data types, and provides automatic
indentation for the configuration file.  It defines the following key
bindings:

@table @key
@item C-M-a
Place cursor at the start of the enclosing section.

@item C-M-e
Place cursor at the end of the enclosing section.

@item C-M-\
Indent region.

@item C-c C-c
Check the syntax of the current buffer by running @command{pound -c}
(@pxref{lint}).
@end table

The following customization variables are available:

@defvr {Customization Variable} pound-basic-offset
Default indentation increment.  Each nesting level in the
configuration file will be indented that amount of columns, relative
to the enclosing section.

The default value is 8.
@end defvr

@defvr {Customization Variable} pound-command
Command line for starting the @command{pound} daemon.  Default is
@samp{pound}.

Use this variable to specify full pathname of the @command{pound}
binary, if it cannot be found using the @env{PATH} shell variable, or
to supply additional options to it.
@end defvr

@defvr {Customization Variable} pound-include-dir
Defines @command{pound} include directory (@pxref{include directory}).
@end defvr

@node Metric Families
@appendix Metric Families
@include metrics.texi

@node Time and Date Formats
@appendix Time and Date Formats
@include strftime.texi

@node Old Control Format
@appendix Old Control Output Format
@include ctlapi417.texi

@node Example Lua modules
@appendix Example Lua modules
This appendix provides implementations of some Lua modules used in
this manual.

@menu
* jwt.lua::
* cookie.lua::
@end menu

@node jwt.lua
@appendixsec jwt.lua
This is the implementation of @file{jwt.lua} module,
used in examples in @ref{LuaMatch}.  It provides the following
methods:

@deffn {jwt} parse input
Parse @var{input} and build a new @acronym{JWT} object on success.
Return two values: the resulting object, and error message (on
failure).
@end deffn

@deffn {jwt} new payload secret
Create a new @acronym{JWT} object from @var{payload} and encrypt it
with the supplied @var{secret}.
@end deffn

The @acronym{JWT} object returned by either of these functions has two
methods:

@defmethod {jwt} sign secret
Sign the object using @var{secret}.  Return the signed string suitable
for use in @code{Authorization:} HTTP header.
@end defmethod

@defmethod {jwt} verify secret
The reverse operation: verify if the signature of the object returned
by @code{parse} matches @var{secret}.  Return @code{true} if it does
and @code{false} otherwise.
@end defmethod

The fields of a @acronym{JWT} object are:

@defcv {object field} jwt header
Header part of @acronym{JWT}, decoded into Lua table.
@end defcv

@defcv {object field} jwt payload
Payload part, decoded into Lua table.
@end defcv

@defcv {object field} jwt signature
Signature part, as a string.
@end defcv

@defcv {object field} jwt raw
A table containing original (undecoded) values of the three parts in
its fields @code{header}, @code{payload}, and @code{signature}.
@end defcv

Full text of @file{jwt.lua} follows:

@example
@include jwtlua.texi
@end example

@node cookie.lua
@appendixsec cookie.lua
The @code{cookie} module, used in @ref{Cookie injection}, provides the
following two methods:

@deffn {cookie} get name
Return value of the cookie @var{name} from the incoming request, or
nil if no such cookie is present.
@end deffn

@deffn {cookie} set name ttl
Set cookie @var{name} in the response.  Second argument provides the
value of @code{Max-Age}.
@end deffn

Full text of @file{cookie.lua} follows:

@example
@include cookielua.texi
@end example

@node GNU Free Documentation License
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License

@include fdl.texi

@node Index
@unnumbered Index
@printindex cp

@ifset WEBDOC
@ifhtml
@node This Manual in Other Formats
@unnumbered This Manual in Other Formats
@include otherdoc.texi
@end ifhtml
@end ifset

@bye
