.TH SAS_DISK_BLINK "8" "February 2016" "sdparm\-1.11" SDPARM
.SH NAME
sas_disk_blink \- blink the LED on a SAS disk
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sas_disk_blink
[\fI\-\-help\fR] [\fI\-\-set NUM\fR] [\fI\-\-verbose\fR]
\fIDEVICE\fR 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
This bash shell script attempts to blink the LED on the SAS disk
referred to by \fIDEVICE\fR. By default the LED will blink for
30 seconds. This is meant to help identify which disk corresponds
to a given \fIDEVICE\fR.
.PP
The script use the sdparm utility and manipulates the "Ready LED
Meaning" (RLM) field in the Protocol specific port mode page in order
to blink the LED.
.SH OPTIONS
Arguments to long options are mandatory for short options as well.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
print out the usage message then exit.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-set\fR \fINUM\fR
when \fINUM\fR is 0 then the RLM field is cleared. When \fINUM\fR is 1 then
the RLM field is set. When \fINUM\fR > 1 then the SAS disk LED is made
to blink for \fINUM\fR seconds. If this option is not given then the SAS
disk LED is made to blink for 30 seconds.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
increase level or verbosity.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The exit status of this script is 0 when it is successful. Otherwise the exit
status is that of the last sdparm utility called. See the sdparm(8) man page.
.SH AUTHORS
Written by D. Gilbert
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2013\-2016 Douglas Gilbert
.br
This software is distributed under a FreeBSD license. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B sdparm (sdparm)
