.TH "80211DEBUG" "8" "October 2005" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
\fB80211debug\fp \- toggle debug flags of the madwifi net80211 stack
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Set and clear debug flags for the madwifi net80211 stack. Each argument is a 
flag name prefixed by either "-" to clear or "+" to set the flag.
.PP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-?
Display usage and list all debug flags.
.TP
.B \-i <interface>
The madwifi interface to apply the settings to. If no interface is specified, 
it will default to ath0.
.TP
.B \-/+ <flag>
Set (+) or clear (-) a debug flag.
.PP
.SH "FLAGS"
.TP
.B debug
IFF_DEBUG equivalent
.TP
.B dumpkits
IFF_LINK2 equivalant
.TP
.B crypto
crypto work
.TP
.B input
input handling
.TP
.B xrate
rate set handling
.TP
.B elemid
element id parsing
.TP
.B node
node handling
.TP
.B assoc
association handling
.TP
.B auth
authentication handling
.TP
.B scan
scanning
.TP
.B output
output handling
.TP
.B state
state machine
.TP
.B power
power save handling
.TP
.B dot1x
802.1x authenticator
.TP
.B dot1xsm
802.1x state machine
.TP
.B radius
802.1x radius client
.TP
.B raddump
dump 802.1x radius packets
.TP
.B radkeys
dump 802.1x keys
.TP
.B wpa
WPA/RSN protocol
.TP
.B ac1
ACL handling
.TP
.B wme
WME protocol
.TP
.B mlme
MLME handling
.PP
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
.B 80211debug \-i ath1 +radkeys
Set radkeys debug flag on for the madwifi interface ath1.
.TP
.B 80211debug +state
Set state debug flag on for the default madwifi interface ath0.
.TP
.B 80211debug \-state
Clear state debug flag for the default madwifi interface ath0.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBathdebug\fP(8)
.SH "AUTHOR"
This manual page was written by Kel Modderman <kelrin@tpg.com.au> and was based
upon previous text written by Eric S. Raymond.
