.TH "ATHCTRL" "8" "September 2005" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
\fBathctrl\fP \- sets the maximum distance in meters between communicating 
stations
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBathctrl\fP [-h] [-i <interface>] [-d <distance>]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Athctrl sets the maximum distance in meters of stations with which 
communication occurs. This distance metric determines how much time the radio
waits for an acknowledgment after every transmission and it sets a few other 
derived timing parameters. This limits the distance between two stations at 
which the collision avoidance, acknowledgment, retransmission protocols will 
work correctly. 
.PP
In particular, when transmitting to too distant stations the radio will start 
retransmitting packets before an ACK can possibly have been received causing 
unecessary retransmissions and collisions. The distance parameter needs to be 
set properly on all stations that perform long-distance communication 
irrespective of their mode of operation (master/managed/ad-hoc). For best 
operation all stations communicating with each other should be set to the same
value.
.PP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-i <interface>
The madwifi interface to apply the settings to. If no interface is specified, 
it will default to ath0.
.TP
.B \-d <distance>
Distance in metric meters.
.TP 
.B \-h
Display usage.
.PP
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
.B athctrl \-i ath1 \-d 500
Set maximum distance of 500m for the madwifi interface ath1.
.TP
.B athctrl 100
Set maximum distance of 100m for the default madwifi interface ath0.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBathchans\fP(8), \fBathkey\fP(8), \fBathstats\fP(8)
.SH "AUTHOR"
This manual page was written by Kel Modderman <kelrin@tpg.com.au> and was based
upon previous text written by Eric S. Raymond and Thorsten von Eicken.
