.TH "ATHDEBUG" "8" "October 2005" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
\fBathdebug\fp \- toggle debug flags of madwifi interfaces
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Set and clear debug flags for the madwifi interfaces. Each argument is a flag
name prefixed by either "-" to clear or "+" to set the flag.
.PP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-?
Display usage and list all debug flags.
.TP
.B \-i <interface>
The madwifi interface to apply the settings to. If no interface is specified, 
it will default to ath0.
.TP
.B \-/+ <flag>
Set (+) or clear (-) a debug flag.
.PP
.SH "FLAGS"
.TP
.B xmit
basic xmit operation
.TP
.B xmit_desc
xmit descriptors
.TP
.B recv
basic recv operation
.TP
.B recv_desc
recv descriptors
.TP
.B rate
rate control
.TP
.B reset
reset processing
.TP
.B mode
mode init/setup
.TP
.B beacon
beacon handling
.TP
.B watchdog
watchdog timeout
.TP
.B intr
ISR
.TP
.B xmit_proc
tx ISR proc
.TP
.B recv_proc
rx ISR proc
.TP
.B beacon_proc
beacon ISR proc
.TP
.B calibrate
periodic calibration
.TP
.B keycache
key cache management
.TP
.B state
802.11 state transitions
.TP
.B node
node management
.TP
.B fatal
fatal errors
.PP
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
.B athdebug \-i ath1 +recv
Set recv debug flag on for the madwifi interface ath1.
.TP
.B athdebug +rate
Set rate debug flag on for the default madwifi interface ath0.
.TP
.B athdebug \-rate
Clear rate debug flag for the default madwifi interface ath0.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fB80211debug\fP(8)
.SH "AUTHOR"
This manual page was written by Kel Modderman <kelrin@tpg.com.au> and was based
upon previous text written by Eric S. Raymond.
