.TH "ATHKEY" "8" "October 2005" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
\fBathkey\fP \- manage ecnryption type and keys of a madwifi interface 
stations
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBathctrl\fP [-i <interface>] [-d] keyix cipher keyval [mac]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Manage encryption type and keys of a madwifi interface. Each interface may have
up to four keys; the first argument required is the key index. The "-d" option
may be specified to delete the key associated with the selected key index.
Otherwise, the other arguments required are a cipher type and a key value 
encoded as a hexidecimal literal. A MAC adress may be given as a final 
argument; if given, the key will be considered valid only for the specified MAC
adress.
.PP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-i <interface>
The madwifi interface to apply the settings to. If no interface is specified, 
it will default to ath0.
.TP
.B \-d <keyix>
Delete a specified key index.
.TP 
.B keyix
A key index of 1, 2, 3 or 4.
.TP
.B cipher
A cypher type of wep, tkip, ocb, ccm, aes, ckip or none.
.TP
.B keyval
A key value encoded as a hexadecimal literal with an optional leading 0x or 0X.
Embedded periods, colons and dashes are ignored.
.TP
.B mac
MAC adress encoded as an hexidecimal literal. If a MAC adress is specified when
adding a key value, the key will be valid only for the specified MAC.
.PP
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
.B athkey \-i ath1 \-d 1
Remove key value of index 1 for the madwifi interface ath1.
.TP
.B athkey 1 wep 0123456789
Set a wep key of "0123456789" on index 1 of the default madwifi interface ath0.
.TP
.B athkey \-i ath2 2 tkip 0123456789 00:9b:5c:63:e6:b4
Set a key of 0123456789 using the tkip cipher for a MAC of 00:9b:5c:63:e6:b4 
on index 2 of the madwifi interface ath2.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBathchans\fP(8), \fBathctrl\fP(8), \fBathstats\fP(8)
.SH "AUTHOR"
This manual page was written by Kel Modderman <kelrin@tpg.com.au> and was based
upon previous text written by Eric S. Raymond and Thorsten von Eicken.
