.TH RARP 8 "4 August 1997" "net-tools" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
rarp \- manipulate the system RARP table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "rarp [-V] [--version] [-h] [--help]"
.br
.B "rarp -a"
.br
.B "rarp [-v] -d hostname ..."
.br
.B "rarp [-v] [-t type] -s hostname hw_addr"
.SH NOTE
.P
This program is obsolete.  From version 2.3, the Linux kernel 
no longer contains RARP support.  For a replacement RARP daemon, see
.I
ftp://ftp.dementia.org/pub/net-tools
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Rarp
manipulates the kernel's RARP table in various ways.  The primary options
are clearing an address mapping entry and manually setting up one.  For
debugging purposes, the
.B rarp
program also allows a complete dump of the RARP table.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-V
Display the version of RARP in use.
.TP
.B \-v
Tell the user what is going on by being verbose.
.TP
.B "\-t type"
When setting or reading the RARP table, this optional parameter tells
.B rarp
which class of entries it should check for.  The default value of
this parameter is
.B ether
(i.e. hardware code
.B 0x01
for
.B "IEEE 802.3 10Mbps Ethernet".
Other values might include network technologies such as
.B AX.25 (ax25)
and
.B NET/ROM (netrom).
.TP
.B "\-a"
.TP
.B "\-\-list"
Lists the entries in the RARP table.
.TP
.B "\-d hostname"
.TP
.B "\-\-delete hostname"
Remove all RARP entries for the specified host.
.TP
.B "\-s hostname hw_addr"
.TP
.B "\-\-set hostname hw_addr"
Create a RARP address mapping entry for host
.B hostname
with hardware address set to
.B hw_addr
.  The format of the hardware address is dependent on the hardware
class, but for most classes one can assume that the usual presentation
can be used.  For the Ethernet class, this is 6 bytes in hexadecimal,
separated by colons.
.SH WARNING
Some systems (notably older Suns) assume that the host replying to
a RARP query can also provide other remote boot services. Therefore 
never gratuitously add rarp entries unless you wish to meet the wrath
of the network administrator.
.SH FILES
.I /proc/net/rarp,
.SH SEE ALSO
arp(8), route(8), ifconfig(8), netstat(8)
.SH AUTHORS
Ross D. Martin, <martin@trcsun3.eas.asu.edu>
.br
Fred N. van Kempen, <waltje@uwalt.nl.mugnet.org>
.br
Phil Blundell, <Philip.Blundell@pobox.com>
