.TH "ATHKEY" "8" "February 2006" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
\fBathkey\fP \- manage encryption type and keys of madwifi devices
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B athkey
[-i device] [-d] keyix cipher keyval [mac]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Each device may have up to four keys; the first argument required is the key
index. The "-d" option may be specified to delete the key associated with the
selected key index. Otherwise, the other arguments required are a cipher type
and a key value encoded as a hexadecimal literal. A MAC address may be given as
a final argument; if given, the key will be considered valid only for the
specified MAC address.
.PP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-i device
The madwifi device to apply the settings to. If no device is specified, 
\fBathkey\fP defaults to wifi0.
.TP
.B \-d keyix
Delete a specified key index.
.TP 
.B keyix
A key index of 1, 2, 3 or 4.
.TP
.B cipher
Cipher type values: [wep|tkip|ocb|ccm|aes|ckip|none]
.TP
.B keyval
A key value encoded as a hexadecimal literal with an optional leading 0x or 0X.
Embedded periods, colons and dashes are ignored.
.TP
.B mac
MAC address encoded as an hexadecimal literal. If a MAC address is specified when
adding a key value, the key will be valid only for the specified MAC.
.PP
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
.B athkey \-i wifi1 \-d 1
Remove key value of index 1 for wifi1.
.TP
.B athkey 1 wep 0123456789
Set a wep key of "0123456789" on index 1 on wifi0.
.TP
.B athkey \-i wifi2 2 tkip 0123456789 00:9b:5c:63:e6:b4
Set a key of 0123456789 using the tkip cipher for a MAC of 00:9b:5c:63:e6:b4 
on index 2 on wifi2.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBathchans\fP(8), \fBathctrl\fP(8), \fBathstats\fP(8)
.SH "AUTHOR"
This manual page was written by Kel Modderman <kelrin@tpg.com.au> and was based
upon previous text written by Eric S. Raymond and Thorsten von Eicken.
