.TH setpci 8 "@TODAY@" "@VERSION@" "Linux PCI Utilities"
.IX setpci
.SH NAME
setpci \- configure PCI devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B setpci
.RB [ options ]
.B devices
.BR operations ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B setpci
is a utility for querying and configuring PCI devices.

To make use of all the features of this program, you need to have Linux kernel
2.1.82 or newer which supports the /proc/bus/pci interface. With older kernels,
the PCI utilities have to use direct hardware access which is available
only to root and it suffers from numerous race conditions and other problems.

All numbers are entered in hexadecimal notation.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -v
Tells
.I setpci
to be verbose and display detailed information about configuration space accesses.
.TP
.B -f
Tells
.I setpci
not to complain when there's nothing to do (when no devices are selected).
This option is intended for use in widely-distributed configuration scripts
where it's uncertain whether the device in question is present in the machine
or not.
.TP
.B -D
`Demo mode' -- simulate configuration space accesses instead of really doing them.
It's useful to try
.B setpci -vD
to see what your complex sequence of
.B setpci
operations does before you actually execute it.
.TP
.B --version
Shows
.I setpci
version. This option should be used standalone.


.SH DEVICE SELECTION
.PP
Before each sequence of operations you need to select which devices you wish that
operation to affect.
.TP
.B -s [[<bus>]:][<slot>][.[<func>]]
Select devices in specified bus, slot and function. Each component of the device
address can be omitted or set as "*" meaning "any value". All numbers are
hexadecimal.  E.g., "0:" means all devices on bus 0, "0" means all functions of device 0
on any bus, "0.3" selects third function of device 0 on all busses and ".4" selects only
fourth function of each device.
.TP
.B -d [<vendor>]:[<device>]
Select devices with specified vendor and device ID. Both ID's are given in
hexadecimal and may be omitted or given as "*" meaning "any value".

.SH OPERATIONS
.PP
To query value of a configuration register, just name it (either by typing its name or
by typing register address with optional
.BR .B ,
.B .W
or
.B .L
suffix specifying register width as byte, word or longword).
.PP
To set a register, write
.BR reg = values
where
.B reg
is the same you would use to query the register and
.B values
is a comma-separated list of values you want to write starting with the given
address.

.SH REGISTER NAMES
.PP
.B setpci
knows the following configuration register names. See PCI bus specs for their precise
meaning or consult
.B /usr/include/linux/pci.h
for few comments.
.PP
.nf
VENDOR_ID
DEVICE_ID
COMMAND
STATUS
REVISION
CLASS_PROG
CLASS_DEVICE
CACHE_LINE_SIZE
LATENCY_TIMER
HEADER_TYPE
BIST
BASE_ADDRESS_0
BASE_ADDRESS_1
BASE_ADDRESS_2
BASE_ADDRESS_3
BASE_ADDRESS_4
BASE_ADDRESS_5
CARDBUS_CIS
SUBSYSTEM_VENDOR_ID
SUBSYSTEM_ID
ROM_ADDRESS
INTERRUPT_LINE
INTERRUPT_PIN
MIN_GNT
MAX_LAT
PRIMARY_BUS
SECONDARY_BUS
SUBORDINATE_BUS
SEC_LATENCY_TIMER
IO_BASE
IO_LIMIT
SEC_STATUS
MEMORY_BASE
MEMORY_LIMIT
PREF_MEMORY_BASE
PREF_MEMORY_LIMIT
PREF_BASE_UPPER32
PREF_LIMIT_UPPER32
IO_BASE_UPPER16
IO_LIMIT_UPPER16
BRIDGE_ROM_ADDRESS
BRIDGE_CONTROL
CB_CARDBUS_BASE
CB_CAPABILITIES
CB_SEC_STATUS
CB_BUS_NUMBER
CB_CARDBUS_NUMBER
CB_SUBORDINATE_BUS
CB_CARDBUS_LATENCY
CB_MEMORY_BASE_0
CB_MEMORY_LIMIT_0
CB_MEMORY_BASE_1
CB_MEMORY_LIMIT_1
CB_IO_BASE_0
CB_IO_BASE_0_HI
CB_IO_LIMIT_0
CB_IO_LIMIT_0_HI
CB_IO_BASE_1
CB_IO_BASE_1_HI
CB_IO_LIMIT_1
CB_IO_LIMIT_1_HI
CB_SUBSYSTEM_VENDOR_ID
CB_SUBSYSTEM_ID
CB_LEGACY_MODE_BASE

.SH PCILIB OPTIONS
The PCI utilities use PCILIB (a portable library providing platform-independent
functions for PCI configuration space access) to talk to the PCI cards. The following
options control parameters of the library, especially what access method it uses.
By default, PCILIB uses the first available access method and displays no debugging
messages. Each switch is accompanied by a list of hardware/software configurations
it's supported in.

.TP
.B -P <dir>
Use Linux 2.1 style configuration access to directory
.B <dir>
instead of /proc/bus/pci. (Linux 2.1 or newer only)
.TP
.B -H1
Use direct hardware access via Intel configuration mechanism 1. (i386 and compatible only)
.TP
.B -H2
Use direct hardware access via Intel configuration mechanism 2. Warning: This method
is able to address only first 16 devices on any bus and it seems to be very
unrealiable in many cases. (i386 and compatible only)
.TP
.B -S
Use PCI access syscalls. (Linux on Alpha and UltraSparc only)
.TP
.B -F <file>
Extract all information from given file containing output of lspci -x. This is very
useful for analysis of user-supplied bug reports, because you can display the
hardware configuration in any way you want without disturbing the user with
requests for more dumps. (All systems)
.TP
.B -G
Increase debug level of the library. (All systems)

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
`setpci -d *:* latency_timer=40' sets the latency timer to 64 (40 hexadecimal).
.PP
`setpci -s 0 device_id vendor_id' lists ID's of devices in slot 0 in all busses.
.PP
`setpci -s 12:3.4 3c.l=1,2,3' writes longword 1 to register 3c, 2 to register 3d
and 3 to register 3e of device at bus 12, slot 3, function 4.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lspci (8)

.SH AUTHOR
The Linux PCI Utilities are maintained by Martin Mares <mj@ucw.cz>.
