.\" Copyright (C) 2000 David A. Hinds -- dhinds@pcmcia.sourceforge.org
.\" mii-tool.8 1.5 2000/04/25 22:58:19
.\"
.TH MII-TOOL 8 "2000/04/25 22:58:19" "net-tools"

.SH NAME
mii-tool \- view, manipulate media-independent interface status

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mii-tool
[\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR]
[\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR]
[\fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-reset\fR]
[\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-restart\fR]
[\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-watch\fR]
[\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-log\fR]
[\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-advertise=\fImedia,...\fR]
[\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-force=\fImedia\fR]
.RI [ "interface\ ..." ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This utility checks or sets the status of a network interface's Media
Independent Interface (MII) unit.  Most fast ethernet adapters use an
MII to autonegotiate link speed and duplex setting.
.PP
Most intelligent network devices use an autonegotiation protocol to
communicate what media technologies they support, and then select the
fastest mutually supported media technology.  The \fB\-A\fR or
\fB\-\-advertise\fR options can be used to tell the MII to only
advertise a subset of its capabilities.  Some passive devices, such as
single-speed hubs, are unable to autonegotiate.  To handle such
devices, the MII protocol also allows for establishing a link by
simply detecting either a 10baseT or 100baseT link beat.  The \fB\-F\fR
or \fB\-\-force\fR options can be used to force the MII to operate in
one mode, instead of autonegotiating.  The \fB\-A\fR and \fB-F\fR
options are mutually exclusive.
.PP
The default short output reports the negotiated link speed and link
status for each interface.  If an interface or interfaces are not
specified on the command line, then \fBmii-tool\fR will check any
available interfaces from \fBeth0\fR through \fBeth7\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Display more detailed MII status information.  If used twice, also
display raw MII register contents.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display program version information.
.TP
\fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-reset\fR
Reset the MII to its default configuration.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-restart\fR
Restart autonegotiation.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-watch\fR
Watch interface(s) and report changes in link status.  The MII
interfaces are polled at one second intervals.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-log\fR
Used with \fB-w\fR, records link status changes in the system log
instead of printing on standard output.
.TP
\fB\-F\fI media\fR, \fB\-\-force=\fImedia\fR
Disable autonegotiation, and force the MII to either \fB100baseTx-FD\fR,
\fB100baseTx-HD\fR, \fB10baseT-FD\fR, or \fB10baseT-HD\fR operation.
.TP
\fB\-A\fI media,...\fR, \fB\-\-advertise=\fImedia,...\fR
Enable and restart autonegotiation, and advertise only the specified
media technologies.  Multiple technologies should be separated by
commas.  Valid media are \fB100baseT4\fR, \fB100baseTx-FD\fR,
\fB100baseTx-HD\fR, \fB10baseT-FD\fR, and \fB10baseT-HD\fR.

.SH AUTHORS
David Hinds \- dhinds@pcmcia.sourceforge.org
.br
Donald Becker \- becker@scyld.com
