'\"! tbl | nroff \-man
'\" t macro stdmacro

.de SAMPLE
.br
.RS 0
.nf
.nh
..
.de ESAMPLE
.hy
.fi
.RE
..

.TH DEBUGINFOD_FIND_* 3
.SH NAME
debuginfod_find_debuginfo \- request debuginfo from debuginfod

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <elfutils/debuginfod.h>
.PP
Link with \fB-ldebuginfod\fP.

CONNECTION HANDLE

.BI "debuginfod_client *debuginfod_begin(void);"
.BI "void debuginfod_end(debuginfod_client *" client ");"

LOOKUP FUNCTIONS

.BI "int debuginfod_find_debuginfo(debuginfod_client *" client ","
.BI "                              const unsigned char *" build_id ","
.BI "                              int " build_id_len ","
.BI "                              char ** " path ");"
.BI "int debuginfod_find_executable(debuginfod_client *" client ","
.BI "                               const unsigned char *" build_id ","
.BI "                               int " build_id_len ","
.BI "                               char ** " path ");"
.BI "int debuginfod_find_source(debuginfod_client *" client ","
.BI "                           const unsigned char *" build_id ","
.BI "                           int " build_id_len ","
.BI "                           const char *" filename ","
.BI "                           char ** " path ");"
.BI "int debuginfod_find_section(debuginfod_client *" client ","
.BI "                           const unsigned char *" build_id ","
.BI "                           int " build_id_len ","
.BI "                           const char * " section ","
.BI "                           char ** " path ");"
.BI "int debuginfod_find_metadata(debuginfod_client *" client ","
.BI "                            const char *" key ","
.BI "                            const char *" value ","
.BI "                            char ** " path ");"


OPTIONAL FUNCTIONS

.BI "typedef int (*debuginfod_progressfn_t)(debuginfod_client *" client ","
.BI "                                       long a, long b);"
.BI "void debuginfod_set_progressfn(debuginfod_client *" client ","
.BI "                               debuginfod_progressfn_t " progressfn ");"
.BI "void debuginfod_set_verbose_fd(debuginfod_client *" client ","
.BI "                               int " fd ");"
.BI "void debuginfod_set_user_data(debuginfod_client *" client ","
.BI "                              void *" data ");"
.BI "void* debuginfod_get_user_data(debuginfod_client *" client ");"
.BI "const char* debuginfod_get_url(debuginfod_client *" client ");"
.BI "int debuginfod_add_http_header(debuginfod_client *" client ","
.BI "                               const char* " header ");"
.BI "const char* debuginfod_get_headers(debuginfod_client *" client ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION

.BR debuginfod_begin ()
creates a \fBdebuginfod_client\fP connection handle that should be used
with all other calls.
.BR debuginfod_end ()
should be called on the \fBclient\fP handle to release all state and
storage when done.

.BR debuginfod_find_debuginfo (),
.BR debuginfod_find_executable (),
and
.BR debuginfod_find_source ()
query the debuginfod server URLs contained in
.BR $DEBUGINFOD_URLS
(see below) for the debuginfo, executable or source file with the
given \fIbuild_id\fP. \fIbuild_id\fP should be a pointer to either
a null-terminated, lowercase hex string or a binary blob. If
\fIbuild_id\fP is given as a hex string, \fIbuild_id_len\fP should
be 0. Otherwise \fIbuild_id_len\fP should be the number of bytes in
the binary blob.

.BR debuginfod_find_source ()
also requires a \fIfilename\fP in order to specify a particular
source file. \fIfilename\fP should be an absolute path that includes
the compilation directory of the CU associated with the source file.
Relative path names commonly appear in the DWARF file's source directory,
but these paths are relative to individual compilation unit AT_comp_dir
paths, and yet an executable is made up of multiple CUs. Therefore, to
disambiguate, debuginfod expects source queries to prefix relative path
names with the CU compilation-directory, followed by a mandatory "/".

Note: the caller may or may not elide \fB../\fP or \fB/./\fP or extraneous
\fB///\fP sorts of path components in the directory names.  debuginfod
accepts both forms.  Specifically, debuginfod canonicalizes path names
according to RFC3986 section 5.2.4 (Remove Dot Segments), plus reducing
any \fB//\fP to \fB/\fP in the path.

.BR debuginfod_find_section ()
queries the debuginfod server URLs contained in
.BR $DEBUGINFOD_URLS
for the binary contents of an ELF/DWARF section contained in a debuginfo
or executable file with the given \fIbuild_id\fP. \fIsection\fP should
be the name of the desired ELF/DWARF section.  If a server does not support
section queries, debuginfod_find_section may query the server for the
debuginfo and/or executable with \fIbuild_id\fP in order to retrieve
and extract the section.

.BR debuginfod_find_metadata ()
queries all debuginfod server URLs contained in
.BR $DEBUGINFOD_URLS
for metadata for all matches of a given key/value query against files
in their indexes.  The resulting file is a JSON document.  See the
\fIdebuginfod-find(1)\fP man page for examples of the supported types
of key/value queries and their JSON results.

If \fIpath\fP is not NULL and the query is successful, \fIpath\fP is set
to the path of the file in the cache. The caller must \fBfree\fP() this value.

The URLs in \fB$DEBUGINFOD_URLS\fP may be queried in parallel. As soon
as a debuginfod server begins transferring the target file all of the
connections to the other servers are closed.

A \fBclient\fP handle should be used from only one thread at a time.
A handle may be reused for a series of lookups, which can improve
performance due to retention of connections and caches.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"

\fBdebuginfod_begin\fP returns the \fBdebuginfod_client\fP handle to
use with all other calls.  On error \fBNULL\fP will be returned and
\fBerrno\fP will be set.

If a find family function is successful, the resulting file is saved
to the client cache and a file descriptor to that file is returned.
The file descriptor points to the beginning of the file.  The caller
needs to \fBclose\fP() this descriptor.  Otherwise, a negative error
code is returned.

.SH "OPTIONAL FUNCTIONS"

A small number of optional functions are available to tune or query
the operation of the debuginfod client.

.SS "PROGRESS CALLBACK"

As the \fBdebuginfod_find_*\fP() functions may block for seconds or
longer, a progress callback function is called periodically, if
configured with
.BR debuginfod_set_progressfn ().
This function sets a new progress callback function (or NULL) for the
client handle.

The given callback function is called from the context of each thread
that is invoking any of the other lookup functions.  It is given two
numeric parameters that, if thought of as a numerator \fIa\fP and
denominator \fIb\fP, together represent a completion fraction
\fIa/b\fP.  The denominator may be zero initially, until a quantity
such as an exact download size becomes known.

The progress callback function is also the supported way to
\fIinterrupt\fP the download operation.  (The library does \fInot\fP
modify or trigger signals.)  The progress callback must return 0 to
continue the work, or any other value to stop work as soon as
possible.  Consequently, the \fBdebuginfod_find_*\fP() function will
likely return with an error, but might still succeed.

.SS "VERBOSE OUTPUT"

The \fBdebuginfod_find_*\fP() functions may use several techniques
to retrieve the requested files, through the cache or through one
or multiple servers or file URLs. To show how a query is handled the
.BR debuginfod_set_verbose_fd ()
can be used to set a particular file descriptor on which verbose
output is given about the query steps and eventual errors encountered.

.SS "USER DATA POINTER"

A single \fIvoid *\fP pointer associated with the connection handle
may be set any time via
.BR \%debuginfod_set_user_data () ,
and retrieved via
.BR \%debuginfod_get_user_data () .
The value is undefined if unset.

.SS "URL"

The URL of the current or most recent outgoing download, if known,
may be retrieved via
.BR \%debuginfod_get_url ()
from the progressfn callback, or afterwards.  It may be NULL.
The resulting string is owned by the library, and must not be modified
or freed.  The caller should copy it if it is needed beyond the release
of the client object.

.SS "HTTP HEADER"

Before each lookup function is initiated, a client application may
add HTTP request headers.  These are reset after each lookup function.
.BR \%debuginfod_add_http_header ()
may be called with strings of the form
.BR \%"Header:\~value" .
These strings are copied by the library.  A zero return value
indicates success, but out-of-memory conditions may result in
a non-zero \fI-ENOMEM\fP. If the string is in the wrong form
\fI-EINVAL\fP will be returned.

\fI$DEBUGINFOD_HEADERS_FILE\fP specifies a file to supply headers to
outgoing requests. Each non-whitespace line of this file is handled
as if
.BR \%debuginfod_add_http_header ()
were called on the contents.

Note that the current debuginfod-client library implementation uses
libcurl, but you shouldn't rely on that fact. Don't use this function
for replacing any standard headers, except for the User-Agent mentioned
below. You can use this function to add authorization information for
access control, or to provide optional headers to the server for
logging purposes.

By default, the library adds a descriptive \fIUser-Agent:\fP
header to outgoing requests.  If the client application adds
a header with the same name, this default is suppressed.

During or after a lookup, a client application may call
.BR \%debuginfod_get_headers ()
to gather the subset of HTTP response headers received from the
current or most recent debuginfod server.  Only those headers prefixed
with
.BR X-DEBUGINFOD
(case-insensitive) are kept.  They are returned as a single string,
with each "header: value" terminated with a \\n (not \\r\\n as in
HTTP).  It may be NULL.  The resulting string is owned by the library,
and must not be modified or freed.  The caller should copy the
returned string if it is needed beyond the release of the client
object.

.SH "MACROS"

.SS "DEBUGINFOD_SONAME"

Defined to the string that could be passed to
.BR dlopen (3)
if the library is loaded at runtime, for example

.PP
.in +4n
.EX
void *debuginfod_so = dlopen(DEBUGINFOD_SONAME, RTLD_LAZY);
.EE
.in

.SH "SECURITY"

If IMA signature(s) are available from the RPMs that contain
requested files, then
.BR debuginfod
will extract those signatures into response headers, and
.BR debuginfod_find_* ()
will perform verification upon the files.
Validation policy is controlled via tags inserted into
$DEBUGINFOD_URLS.  By default, 
.BR debuginfod_find_* ()
acts in ignore mode.

If accessed across HTTP rather than HTTPS, the
network should be trustworthy.  Authentication information through
the internal \fIlibcurl\fP library is not currently enabled, except
for the basic plaintext \%\fIhttp[s]://userid:password@hostname/\fP style.
(The debuginfod server does not perform authentication, but a front-end
proxy server could.)

.SH "ERRORS"
The following list is not comprehensive. Error codes may also
originate from calls to various C Library functions.

.TP
.BR EACCESS
Denied access to resource located at the URL.

.TP
.BR ECONNREFUSED
Unable to connect to remote host. Also returned when an HTTPS connection
couldn't be verified (bad certificate).

.TP
.BR ECONNRESET
Unable to either send or receive network data.

.TP
.BR EHOSTUNREACH
Unable to resolve remote host.

.TP
.BR EINVAL
One or more arguments are incorrectly formatted. \fIbuild_id\fP may
be too long (greater than 256 characters), \fIfilename\fP may not
be an absolute path or a debuginfod URL is malformed.

.TP
.BR EIO
Unable to write data received from server to local file.

.TP
.BR EMLINK
Too many HTTP redirects.

.TP
.BR ENETUNREACH
Unable to initialize network connection.

.TP
.BR ENOENT
Could not find the resource located at URL. Often this error code
indicates that a debuginfod server was successfully contacted but
the server could not find the target file.

.TP
.BR ENOMEM
System is unable to allocate resources.

.TP
.BR ENOSYS
\fB$DEBUGINFOD_URLS\fP is not defined.

.TP
.BR ETIME
Query failed due to timeout. \fB$DEBUGINFOD_TIMEOUT\fP and
\fB$DEBUGINFOD_MAXTIME\fP control this.

.TP
.BR EF2BIG
Query aborted due to the file requested being too big.  The
\fB$DEBUGINFOD_MAXSIZE\fP controls this.

.TP
.BR EBADMSG
File content failed IMA verification against a known signer certificate.

.TP
.BR ENOKEY
File content failed IMA verification due to missing signer certificate.

.TP
.BR ENODATA
File content failed IMA verification because of a missing signature.

.nr zZ 1
.so man7/debuginfod-client-config.7

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.I "debuginfod(8)"
