.TH ELF_GETSHDRNUM 3 2025-06-30 "Libelf" "Libelf Programmer's Manual"

.SH NAME
elf_getshdrnum, elf_getshnum \- retrieve the number of section headers in an ELF file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <libelf.h>

.B int elf_getshdrnum("Elf *elf", "size_t *dst");
.B int elf_getshnum("Elf *elf", "size_t *dst"); (deprecated)
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR elf_getshdrnum ()
function stores the number of section headers (sections) associated with the
ELF descriptor
.I elf
into the variable pointed to by
.IR dst .

It transparently handles both standard and extended section header counts.
If the number of section headers exceeds the representable range of the
.I e_shnum
field in the ELF header, the ELF specification allows encoding the true
count in section header 0’s
.I sh_size
field, and sets
.I e_shnum
to 0. This function transparently handles that case.

The function
.BR elf_getshnum ()
is a deprecated alias for
.BR elf_getshdrnum ()
and should not be used in new code (see HISTORY).

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I elf
A pointer to an
.B Elf
descriptor opened with
.BR elf_begin (3).
The descriptor must represent a file of kind
.B ELF_K_ELF .
If NULL, the function returns \-1 without setting elf_errno.

.TP
.I dst
Pointer to a
.B size_t
variable. On success, the number of section headers is written here.
Must not be NULL.

.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns 0 on success and stores the result in
.IR dst .
Returns \-1 on failure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf32_getshdr (3),
.BR elf64_getshdr (3),
.BR libelf (3),
.BR elf (5)

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.TS
allbox;
lbx lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.na
.nh
.BR elf_getshdrnum (),\~elf_getshnum()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <elfutils-devel@sourceware.org> or https://sourceware.org/bugzilla/.

.SH HISTORY
.B elf_getshdrnum
first appeared in elfutils 0.142.  This function was added due to elf_getshnum
return value inconsistencies between different libelf implementations.
.B elf_getshdrnum
was introduced to ensure that 0 is returned on success across all libelf
implementations.
