.TH ELF_HASH 3 2025-03-31 "Libelf" "Libelf Programmer's Manual"

.SH NAME
elf_hash, elf_gnu_hash \- Compute the standard ELF hash or GNU hash of a string.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <libelf.h>

.BI "unsigned long int elf_hash(const char *" string ");"
.BI "unsigned long int elf_gnu_hash(const char *" string ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B elf_hash
function computes the standard ELF hash value for a null-terminated
string.  The hash values are typically used in ELF object files for
symbol table hashing.  The hash function is used in SHT_HASH sections as
it avoids generating architecture-dependent values and is suitable for use
across architectures.

The
.BR elf_gnu_hash
function computes the GNU-style hash value of a null-terminated string,
used in the
.B SHT_GNU_HASH
section.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I string
NULL-terminated string to be hashed.

.SH RETURN VALUE
These functions return a hash value for
.IR string .
Only the lower 32 bits of the return value are used.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libelf (3),
.BR elf (5)

.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lbx lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.na
.nh
.BR elf_hash (),\~elf_gnu_hash ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <elfutils-devel@sourceware.org> or https://sourceware.org/bugzilla/.

.SH HISTORY
.B elf_gnu_hash
first appeared in elfutils 0.122.  This function is a elfutils libelf extension and
may not be available in other libelf implementations.
