.TH "bulk_to_next: convert GETBULK requests into GETNEXT requests for the handler." 3 "5 Sep 2003" "net-snmp" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
bulk_to_next: convert GETBULK requests into GETNEXT requests for the handler. \- The only purpose of this handler is to convert a GETBULK request to a GETNEXT request. 
More...
.SS "handler"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBnetsnmp_init_bulk_to_next_helper\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIinitializes the bulk_to_next helper which then registers a bulk_to_next handler as a run-time injectable handler for configuration file use.\fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "netsnmp_mib_handler * \fBnetsnmp_get_bulk_to_next_handler\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIreturns a bulk_to_next handler that can be injected into a given handler chain.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBnetsnmp_bulk_to_next_fix_requests\fP (netsnmp_request_info *requests)"
.br
.RI "\fItakes answered requests and decrements the repeat count and updates the requests to the next to-do varbind in the list\fP"
.in -1c
.SH "DETAILED DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
The only purpose of this handler is to convert a GETBULK request to a GETNEXT request.
.PP
It is inserted into handler chains where the handler has not set the HANDLER_CAN_GETBULK flag. 
.SH "FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void netsnmp_bulk_to_next_fix_requests (netsnmp_request_info * requests)"
.PP
takes answered requests and decrements the repeat count and updates the requests to the next to-do varbind in the list
.PP
Definition at line 39 of file bulk_to_next.c.
.SS "netsnmp_mib_handler* netsnmp_get_bulk_to_next_handler (void)"
.PP
returns a bulk_to_next handler that can be injected into a given handler chain.
.PP
Definition at line 30 of file bulk_to_next.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_create_handler().
.PP
Referenced by netsnmp_init_bulk_to_next_helper(), and netsnmp_register_handler().
.SS "void netsnmp_init_bulk_to_next_helper (void)"
.PP
initializes the bulk_to_next helper which then registers a bulk_to_next handler as a run-time injectable handler for configuration file use.
.PP
Definition at line 95 of file bulk_to_next.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_get_bulk_to_next_handler(), and netsnmp_register_handler_by_name().
.PP
Referenced by netsnmp_init_helpers().
