.\"SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-only
.\"Copyright (c) 1999 Thomas Sailer <sailer@ife.ee.ethz.ch>
.\"Copyright (c) 2020 Sam Morris <sam@robots.org.uk>
.TH lsusb.py 1 "03 January 2024" "usbutils" "Linux USB Utilities"
.IX lsusb.py
.SH NAME
lsusb.py \- list USB devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lsusb.py
[
.I options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lsusb.py
is a utility for displaying information about USB buses in the system and the
devices connected to them. It uses the
.B usb.ids
file to associate a human-readable name to the vendor and product IDs.
.PP
In comparison with
.BR lsusb (8),
this program can display additional information such as the interface speed of
a device, and details of a device's interfaces including the driver bound to
them and Linux devices provided by the driver, and the details of device and
interface endpoints.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Displays options supported by
.BR lsusb (1).
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-interfaces
Display information about the interfaces of each device, excluding hubs.
.TP
.BR \-I ", " \-\-hub\-interfaces
Display information about the interfaces of each device, including hubs., excluding hubs.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-hide\-empty\-hubs
Suppress information about hubs that have no devices connected.
.TP
.BR \-U ", " \-\-hide\-hubs
Suppress information about hubs, even if they have devices connected.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-color
Use color
.TP
.BR \-C ", " \-\-no\-color
Don't use color
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-endpoints
Include information about device (and interface, with
.BR -i )
endpoints.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-usbids\-path
Overrides the path of the
.B usb.ids
file.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lspci (8),
.BR lsusb (8),
.BR usbview (8).

.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Sailer, <sailer@ife.ee.ethz.ch>,
Sam Morris <sam@robots.org.uk>.
