.\"SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-only
.\"Copyright (c) 1999 Thomas Sailer <sailer@ife.ee.ethz.ch>
.TH lsusb 8 "11 February 2019" "usbutils" "Linux USB Utilities"
.IX lsusb
.SH NAME
lsusb \- list USB devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lsusb
[
.I options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lsusb
is a utility for displaying information about USB buses in the system and
the devices connected to them. It uses udev's hardware database to
associate a full human-readable name to the vendor ID and the product ID.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Tells
.I lsusb
to be verbose and display detailed information about the devices shown.
This includes configuration descriptors for the device's current speed.
Class descriptors will be shown, when available, for USB device classes
including hub, audio, HID, communications, and chipcard. Can be used with the
\fB-t\fP option.
.TP
\fB\-s\fP [[\fIbus\fP]\fB:\fP][\fIdevnum\fP]
Show only devices in specified
.I bus
and/or
.IR devnum .
Both IDs are given in decimal and may be omitted.
.TP
\fB\-d\fP [\fIvendor\fP]\fB:\fP[\fIproduct\fP]
Show only devices with the specified vendor and product ID.
Both IDs are given in hexadecimal.
.TP
.B \-D \fIdevice\fP
Do not scan the /dev/bus/usb directory,
instead display only information
about the device whose device file is given.
The device file should be something like /dev/bus/usb/001/001.
This option displays detailed information like the \fB-v\fP option;
you must be root to do this.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-tree
Tells
.I lsusb
to dump the physical USB device hierarchy as a tree. Verbosity can be increased twice with the
\fB-v\fP option.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version information on standard output,
then exit successfully.

.SH RETURN VALUE
If the specified device is not found, a non-zero exit code is returned.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lspci (8),
.BR usbview (8).

.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Sailer, <sailer@ife.ee.ethz.ch>.
