.TH "generic library based alarm timers for various parts of an application" 3 "24 Nov 2006" "Version 5.4" "net-snmp" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
generic library based alarm timers for various parts of an application \- 
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBinit_alarm_post_config\fP (int majorid, int minorid, void *serverarg, void *clientarg)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBinit_snmp_alarm\fP (void)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBsa_update_entry\fP (struct \fBsnmp_alarm\fP *a)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBsnmp_alarm_unregister\fP (unsigned int clientreg)"
.br
.RI "\fIThis function removes the callback function from a list of registered alarms, unregistering the alarm. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBsnmp_alarm_unregister_all\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIThis function unregisters all alarms currently stored. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBsnmp_alarm\fP * \fBsa_find_next\fP (void)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBsnmp_alarm\fP * \fBsa_find_specific\fP (unsigned int clientreg)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBrun_alarms\fP (void)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "RETSIGTYPE \fBalarm_handler\fP (int a)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBget_next_alarm_delay_time\fP (struct timeval *delta)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBset_an_alarm\fP (void)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "unsigned int \fBsnmp_alarm_register\fP (unsigned int when, unsigned int flags, SNMPAlarmCallback *thecallback, void *clientarg)"
.br
.RI "\fIThis function registers function callbacks to occur at a speciifc time in the future. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "unsigned int \fBsnmp_alarm_register_hr\fP (struct timeval t, unsigned int flags, SNMPAlarmCallback *cb, void *cd)"
.br
.RI "\fIThis function offers finer granularity as to when the callback function is called by making use of t->tv_usec value forming the 'when' aspect of \fBsnmp_alarm_register()\fP. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "unsigned int snmp_alarm_register (unsigned int when, unsigned int flags, SNMPAlarmCallback * thecallback, void * clientarg)"
.PP
This function registers function callbacks to occur at a speciifc time in the future. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIwhen\fP is an unsigned integer specifying when the callback function will be called in seconds.
.br
\fIflags\fP is an unsigned integer that specifies how frequent the callback function is called in seconds. Should be SA_REPEAT or 0. If flags is set with SA_REPEAT, then the registered callback function will be called every SA_REPEAT seconds. If flags is 0 then the function will only be called once and then removed from the registered alarm list.
.br
\fIthecallback\fP is a pointer SNMPAlarmCallback which is the callback function being stored and registered.
.br
\fIclientarg\fP is a void pointer used by the callback function. This pointer is assigned to snmp_alarm->clientarg and passed into the callback function for the client's specifc needs.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
Returns a unique unsigned integer(which is also passed as the first argument of each callback), which can then be used to remove the callback from the list at a later point in the future using the \fBsnmp_alarm_unregister()\fP function. If memory could not be allocated for the \fBsnmp_alarm\fP struct 0 is returned.
.RE
.PP
\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBsnmp_alarm_unregister\fP 
.PP
\fBsnmp_alarm_register_hr\fP 
.PP
\fBsnmp_alarm_unregister_all\fP 
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBExamples: \fP
.in +1c
\fBdelayed_instance.c\fP, and \fBnotification.c\fP.
.PP
Definition at line 404 of file snmp_alarm.c.
.PP
References NULL, sa_update_entry(), set_an_alarm(), and SNMP_MALLOC_STRUCT.
.PP
Referenced by netsnmp_cache_timer_start().
.SS "unsigned int snmp_alarm_register_hr (struct timeval t, unsigned int flags, SNMPAlarmCallback * cb, void * cd)"
.PP
This function offers finer granularity as to when the callback function is called by making use of t->tv_usec value forming the 'when' aspect of \fBsnmp_alarm_register()\fP. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIt\fP is a timeval structure used to specify when the callback function(alarm) will be called. Adds the ability to specify microseconds. t.tv_sec and t.tv_usec are assigned to snmp_alarm->tv_sec and snmp_alarm->tv_usec respectively internally. The snmp_alarm_register function only assigns seconds(it's when argument).
.br
\fIflags\fP is an unsigned integer that specifies how frequent the callback function is called in seconds. Should be SA_REPEAT or NULL. If flags is set with SA_REPEAT, then the registered callback function will be called every SA_REPEAT seconds. If flags is NULL then the function will only be called once and then removed from the registered alarm list.
.br
\fIcb\fP is a pointer SNMPAlarmCallback which is the callback function being stored and registered.
.br
\fIcd\fP is a void pointer used by the callback function. This pointer is assigned to snmp_alarm->clientarg and passed into the callback function for the client's specifc needs.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
Returns a unique unsigned integer(which is also passed as the first argument of each callback), which can then be used to remove the callback from the list at a later point in the future using the \fBsnmp_alarm_unregister()\fP function. If memory could not be allocated for the \fBsnmp_alarm\fP struct 0 is returned.
.RE
.PP
\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBsnmp_alarm_register\fP 
.PP
\fBsnmp_alarm_unregister\fP 
.PP
\fBsnmp_alarm_unregister_all\fP 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 481 of file snmp_alarm.c.
.PP
References NULL, sa_update_entry(), set_an_alarm(), and SNMP_MALLOC_STRUCT.
.SS "void snmp_alarm_unregister (unsigned int clientreg)"
.PP
This function removes the callback function from a list of registered alarms, unregistering the alarm. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIclientreg\fP is a unique unsigned integer representing a registered alarm which the client wants to unregister.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
void
.RE
.PP
\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBsnmp_alarm_register\fP 
.PP
\fBsnmp_alarm_register_hr\fP 
.PP
\fBsnmp_alarm_unregister_all\fP 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 151 of file snmp_alarm.c.
.PP
References clientreg, next, and NULL.
.PP
Referenced by netsnmp_cache_timer_stop(), and sa_update_entry().
.SS "void snmp_alarm_unregister_all (void)"
.PP
This function unregisters all alarms currently stored. 
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
void
.RE
.PP
\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBsnmp_alarm_register\fP 
.PP
\fBsnmp_alarm_register_hr\fP 
.PP
\fBsnmp_alarm_unregister\fP 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 184 of file snmp_alarm.c.
.PP
References next, and NULL.
.PP
Referenced by snmp_shutdown().
