.TH "utility_handlers" 3 "24 Nov 2006" "Version 5.4" "net-snmp" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
utility_handlers \- Simplify request processing A group of handlers intended to simplify certain aspects of processing a request for a MIB object.  

.PP
.SS "Modules"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBbulk_to_next\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIConvert GETBULK requests into GETNEXT requests for the handler. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "\fBcache_handler\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIMaintains a cache of data for use by lower level handlers. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "\fBdebug\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPrint out debugging information about the handler chain being called. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "\fBmode_end_call\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIAt the end of a series of requests, call another handler hook. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "\fBmultiplexer\fP"
.br
.RI "\fISplits mode requests into calls to different handlers. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "\fBread_only\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIMake your handler read_only automatically The only purpose of this handler is to return an appropriate error for any requests passed to it in a SET mode. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "\fBrow_merge\fP"
.br
.RI "\fICalls sub handlers with request for one row at a time. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "\fBserialize\fP"
.br
.RI "\fICalls sub handlers one request at a time. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "\fBstash_to_next\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIConvert GET_STASH requests into GETNEXT requests for the handler. \fP"
.PP

.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Simplify request processing A group of handlers intended to simplify certain aspects of processing a request for a MIB object. 
.PP
These helpers do not implement any MIB objects themselves. Rather they handle specific generic situations, either returning an error, or passing a (possibly simpler) request down to lower level handlers. 
