.TH "mib parsing and datatype manipulation routines." 3 "24 Nov 2006" "Version 5.4" "net-snmp" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
mib parsing and datatype manipulation routines. \- 
.SS "Data Structures"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fB_PrefixList\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBparse_hints\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Typedefs"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "typedef \fB_PrefixList\fP * \fBPrefixListPtr\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "typedef \fB_PrefixList\fP \fBPrefixList\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Enumerations"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "enum \fBinet_address_type\fP { \fBIPV4\fP =  1, \fBIPV6\fP =  2, \fBIPV4Z\fP =  3, \fBIPV6Z\fP =  4, \fBDNS\fP =  16 }"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fB_sprint_hexstring_line\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, const u_char *cp, size_t line_len)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints a hexadecimal string into a buffer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsprint_realloc_hexstring\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, const u_char *cp, size_t len)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsprint_realloc_asciistring\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, const u_char *cp, size_t len)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints an ascii string into a buffer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsprint_realloc_octet_string\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints an octet string into a buffer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsprint_realloc_counter64\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints a counter into a buffer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsprint_realloc_opaque\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints an object identifier into a buffer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsprint_realloc_object_identifier\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints an object identifier into a buffer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsprint_realloc_timeticks\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints a timetick variable into a buffer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsprint_realloc_hinted_integer\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, long val, const char decimaltype, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints an integer according to the hint into a buffer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsprint_realloc_integer\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints an integer into a buffer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsprint_realloc_uinteger\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints an unsigned integer into a buffer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsprint_realloc_gauge\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints a gauge value into a buffer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsprint_realloc_counter\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints a counter value into a buffer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsprint_realloc_networkaddress\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints a network address into a buffer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsprint_realloc_ipaddress\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints an ip-address into a buffer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsprint_realloc_null\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints a null value into a buffer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsprint_realloc_bitstring\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints a bit string into a buffer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsprint_realloc_nsapaddress\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsprint_realloc_badtype\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.RI "\fIFallback routine for a bad type, prints 'Variable has bad type' into a buffer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsprint_realloc_by_type\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.RI "\fIUniversal print routine, prints a variable into a buffer according to the variable type. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBtree\fP * \fBget_tree_head\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIRetrieves the tree head. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBsnmp_out_toggle_options\fP (char *options)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBsnmp_out_toggle_options_usage\fP (const char *lead, FILE *outf)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBsnmp_in_options\fP (char *optarg, int argc, char *const *argv)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBsnmp_in_toggle_options\fP (char *options)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBsnmp_in_toggle_options_usage\fP (const char *lead, FILE *outf)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints out a help usage for the in* toggle options. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBregister_mib_handlers\fP (void)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBnetsnmp_set_mib_directory\fP (const char *dir)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBnetsnmp_get_mib_directory\fP (void)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBnetsnmp_fixup_mib_directory\fP (void)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBnetsnmp_init_mib\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIInitialises the mib reader. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBinit_mib\fP (void)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBshutdown_mib\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIUnloads all mibs. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBprint_mib\fP (FILE *fp)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints the MIBs to the file fp. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBprint_ascii_dump\fP (FILE *fp)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBset_function\fP (struct \fBtree\fP *subtree)"
.br
.RI "\fISet's the printing function printomat in a subtree according it's type. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBread_objid\fP (const char *input, oid *output, size_t *out_len)"
.br
.RI "\fIReads an object identifier from an input string into internal OID form. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBnetsnmp_sprint_realloc_objid\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, int *buf_overflow, const oid *objid, size_t objidlen)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBtree\fP * \fBnetsnmp_sprint_realloc_objid_tree\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, int *buf_overflow, const oid *objid, size_t objidlen)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsprint_realloc_objid\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, const oid *objid, size_t objidlen)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsnprint_objid\fP (char *buf, size_t buf_len, const oid *objid, size_t objidlen)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBprint_objid\fP (const oid *objid, size_t objidlen)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints an oid to stdout. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBfprint_objid\fP (FILE *f, const oid *objid, size_t objidlen)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints an oid to a file descriptor. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsprint_realloc_variable\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, const oid *objid, size_t objidlen, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *\fBvariable\fP)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsnprint_variable\fP (char *buf, size_t buf_len, const oid *objid, size_t objidlen, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *\fBvariable\fP)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBprint_variable\fP (const oid *objid, size_t objidlen, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *\fBvariable\fP)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints a variable to stdout. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBfprint_variable\fP (FILE *f, const oid *objid, size_t objidlen, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *\fBvariable\fP)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints a variable to a file descriptor. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsprint_realloc_value\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, const oid *objid, size_t objidlen, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *\fBvariable\fP)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsnprint_value\fP (char *buf, size_t buf_len, const oid *objid, size_t objidlen, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *\fBvariable\fP)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBprint_value\fP (const oid *objid, size_t objidlen, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *\fBvariable\fP)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBfprint_value\fP (FILE *f, const oid *objid, size_t objidlen, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *\fBvariable\fP)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBbuild_oid_segment\fP (\fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var)"
.br
.RI "\fITakes the value in VAR and turns it into an OID segment in var->name. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBbuild_oid_noalloc\fP (oid *in, size_t in_len, size_t *out_len, oid *prefix, size_t prefix_len, \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *indexes)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBbuild_oid\fP (oid **out, size_t *out_len, oid *prefix, size_t prefix_len, \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *indexes)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBparse_oid_indexes\fP (oid *oidIndex, size_t oidLen, \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *data)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBparse_one_oid_index\fP (oid **oidStart, size_t *oidLen, \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *data, int complete)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBdump_realloc_oid_to_inetaddress\fP (const int addr_type, const oid *objid, size_t objidlen, u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, char quotechar)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBdump_realloc_oid_to_string\fP (const oid *objid, size_t objidlen, u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, char quotechar)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBtree\fP * \fBget_tree\fP (const oid *objid, size_t objidlen, struct \fBtree\fP *subtree)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBprint_description\fP (oid *objid, size_t objidlen, int width)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints on oid description on stdout. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBfprint_description\fP (FILE *f, oid *objid, size_t objidlen, int width)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints on oid description into a file descriptor. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsnprint_description\fP (char *buf, size_t buf_len, oid *objid, size_t objidlen, int width)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsprint_realloc_description\fP (u_char **buf, size_t *buf_len, size_t *out_len, int allow_realloc, oid *objid, size_t objidlen, int width)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBget_module_node\fP (const char *fname, const char *\fBmodule\fP, oid *objid, size_t *objidlen)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBget_wild_node\fP (const char *name, oid *objid, size_t *objidlen)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBget_node\fP (const char *name, oid *objid, size_t *objidlen)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBclear_tree_flags\fP (register struct \fBtree\fP *tp)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBprint_oid_report\fP (FILE *fp)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBprint_oid_report_enable_labeledoid\fP (void)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBprint_oid_report_enable_oid\fP (void)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBprint_oid_report_enable_suffix\fP (void)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBprint_oid_report_enable_symbolic\fP (void)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBprint_oid_report_enable_mibchildoid\fP (void)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBuptime_string\fP (u_long timeticks, char *buf)"
.br
.RI "\fIConverts timeticks to hours, minutes, seconds string. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBuptime_string_n\fP (u_long timeticks, char *buf, size_t buflen)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "oid * \fBsnmp_parse_oid\fP (const char *argv, oid *root, size_t *rootlen)"
.br
.RI "\fIGiven a string, parses an oid out of it (if possible). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "const char * \fBparse_octet_hint\fP (const char *hint, const char *value, unsigned char **new_val, int *new_val_len)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "u_char \fBmib_to_asn_type\fP (int mib_type)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBnetsnmp_str2oid\fP (const char *S, oid *O, int L)"
.br
.RI "\fIConverts a string to its OID form. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBnetsnmp_oid2chars\fP (char *C, int L, const oid *O)"
.br
.RI "\fIConverts an OID to its character form. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBnetsnmp_oid2str\fP (char *S, int L, oid *O)"
.br
.RI "\fIConverts an OID to its string form. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsnprint_by_type\fP (char *buf, size_t buf_len, \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsnprint_hexstring\fP (char *buf, size_t buf_len, const u_char *cp, size_t len)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsnprint_asciistring\fP (char *buf, size_t buf_len, const u_char *cp, size_t len)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsnprint_octet_string\fP (char *buf, size_t buf_len, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsnprint_opaque\fP (char *buf, size_t buf_len, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsnprint_object_identifier\fP (char *buf, size_t buf_len, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsnprint_timeticks\fP (char *buf, size_t buf_len, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsnprint_hinted_integer\fP (char *buf, size_t buf_len, long val, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsnprint_integer\fP (char *buf, size_t buf_len, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsnprint_uinteger\fP (char *buf, size_t buf_len, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsnprint_gauge\fP (char *buf, size_t buf_len, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsnprint_counter\fP (char *buf, size_t buf_len, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsnprint_networkaddress\fP (char *buf, size_t buf_len, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsnprint_ipaddress\fP (char *buf, size_t buf_len, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsnprint_null\fP (char *buf, size_t buf_len, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsnprint_bitstring\fP (char *buf, size_t buf_len, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsnprint_nsapaddress\fP (char *buf, size_t buf_len, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsnprint_counter64\fP (char *buf, size_t buf_len, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsnprint_badtype\fP (char *buf, size_t buf_len, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP *enums, const char *hint, const char *units)"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Variables"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBtree\fP * \fBtree_head\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBtree\fP * \fBMib\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "oid \fBRFC1213_MIB\fP [] = { 1, 3, 6, 1, 2, 1 }"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBPrefixList\fP \fBmib_prefixes\fP []"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "int _sprint_hexstring_line (u_char ** buf, size_t * buf_len, size_t * out_len, int allow_realloc, const u_char * cp, size_t line_len)"
.PP
Prints a hexadecimal string into a buffer. 
.PP
The characters pointed by *cp are encoded as hexadecimal string.
.PP
If allow_realloc is true the buffer will be (re)allocated to fit in the needed size. (Note: *buf may change due to this.)
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIbuf\fP address of the buffer to print to. 
.br
\fIbuf_len\fP address to an integer containing the size of buf. 
.br
\fIout_len\fP incremented by the number of characters printed. 
.br
\fIallow_realloc\fP if not zero reallocate the buffer to fit the needed size. 
.br
\fIcp\fP the array of characters to encode. 
.br
\fIline_len\fP the array length of cp.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
1 on success, or 0 on failure (out of memory, or buffer to small when not allowed to realloc.) 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 271 of file mib.c.
.PP
References snmp_realloc().
.PP
Referenced by sprint_realloc_hexstring().
.SS "int build_oid (oid ** out, size_t * out_len, oid * prefix, size_t prefix_len, \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP * indexes)"
.PP
xxx-rks: should free previous value? 
.PP
Definition at line 3567 of file mib.c.
.PP
References build_oid_noalloc(), tree::indexes, and snmp_clone_mem().
.PP
Referenced by _netsnmp_tdata_generate_index_oid(), netsnmp_table_build_oid(), and netsnmp_table_data_generate_index_oid().
.SS "int build_oid_segment (\fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP * var)"
.PP
Takes the value in VAR and turns it into an OID segment in var->name. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIvar\fP The variable.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
SNMPERR_SUCCESS or SNMPERR_GENERR 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 3431 of file mib.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_vardata::integer, variable_list::name, variable_list::name_length, variable_list::name_loc, NULL, netsnmp_vardata::objid, SNMP_FREE, netsnmp_vardata::string, variable_list::type, variable_list::val, and variable_list::val_len.
.PP
Referenced by build_oid_noalloc().
.SS "void fprint_description (FILE * f, oid * objid, size_t objidlen, int width)"
.PP
Prints on oid description into a file descriptor. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIf\fP The file descriptor to print to. 
.br
\fIobjid\fP The object identifier. 
.br
\fIobjidlen\fP The object id length. 
.br
\fIwidth\fP Number of subidentifiers. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 4426 of file mib.c.
.PP
References NULL, SNMP_FREE, and sprint_realloc_description().
.PP
Referenced by print_description().
.SS "void fprint_objid (FILE * f, const oid * objid, size_t objidlen)"
.PP
Prints an oid to a file descriptor. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIf\fP The file descriptor to print to. 
.br
\fIobjid\fP The oid to print 
.br
\fIobjidlen\fP The length of oidid. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 3159 of file mib.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_sprint_realloc_objid_tree(), NULL, and SNMP_FREE.
.PP
Referenced by print_objid().
.SS "void fprint_variable (FILE * f, const oid * objid, size_t objidlen, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP * variable)"
.PP
Prints a variable to a file descriptor. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIf\fP The file descriptor to print to. 
.br
\fIobjid\fP The object id. 
.br
\fIobjidlen\fP The length of teh object id. 
.br
\fIvariable\fP The variable to print. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 3306 of file mib.c.
.PP
References NULL, SNMP_FREE, and sprint_realloc_variable().
.PP
Referenced by print_variable().
.SS "struct \fBtree\fP* get_tree_head (void)"
.PP
Retrieves the tree head. 
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
the tree head. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 2015 of file mib.c.
.PP
References tree_head.
.PP
Referenced by netsnmp_config_parse_table_set(), and snmp_add_var().
.SS "int get_wild_node (const char * name, oid * objid, size_t * objidlen)"
.PP
\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
comments on find_best_tree_node for usage after first time. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 5434 of file mib.c.
.PP
References get_node(), tree::label, NULL, and tree_head.
.PP
Referenced by snmp_parse_oid().
.SS "void netsnmp_fixup_mib_directory (void)"
.PP
swap in the new value and repeat 
.PP
Definition at line 2477 of file mib.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_get_mib_directory(), netsnmp_getenv(), netsnmp_set_mib_directory(), NULL, and SNMP_FREE.
.PP
Referenced by netsnmp_init_mib().
.SS "char* netsnmp_get_mib_directory (void)"
.PP
Check if the environment variable is set
.PP
Not set use hard coded path 
.PP
Definition at line 2430 of file mib.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_ds_get_string(), netsnmp_getenv(), netsnmp_set_mib_directory(), and NULL.
.PP
Referenced by netsnmp_fixup_mib_directory(), and netsnmp_init_mib().
.SS "void netsnmp_init_mib (void)"
.PP
Initialises the mib reader. 
.PP
Reads in all settings from the environment. 
.PP
Definition at line 2524 of file mib.c.
.PP
References tree::child_list, tree::label, _PrefixList::len, Mib, mib_prefixes, netsnmp_fixup_mib_directory(), netsnmp_get_mib_directory(), netsnmp_getenv(), NULL, SNMP_FREE, _PrefixList::str, and tree_head.
.PP
Referenced by init_mib(), and init_snmp().
.SS "int netsnmp_oid2chars (char * C, int L, const oid * O)"
.PP
Converts an OID to its character form. 
.PP
in example 5 . 1 . 2 . 3 . 4 . 5 = 12345
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIC\fP The character buffer. 
.br
\fIL\fP The length of the buffer. 
.br
\fIO\fP The oid.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
0 on Sucess, 1 on failure.
.RE
.PP
length 
.PP
Definition at line 6221 of file mib.c.
.PP
Referenced by netsnmp_oid2str().
.SS "int netsnmp_oid2str (char * S, int L, oid * O)"
.PP
Converts an OID to its string form. 
.PP
in example 5 . 'h' . 'e' . 'l' . 'l' . 'o' = 'hello\\0' (null terminated)
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIS\fP The character string buffer. 
.br
\fIL\fP The length of the string buffer. 
.br
\fIO\fP The oid.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
0 on Sucess, 1 on failure. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 6249 of file mib.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_oid2chars().
.SS "void netsnmp_set_mib_directory (const char * dir)"
.PP
New dir starts with '+', thus we add it.
.PP
If dir starts with '+' skip '+' it.
.PP
set_string calls strdup, so if we allocated memory, free it 
.PP
Definition at line 2375 of file mib.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_ds_get_string(), netsnmp_ds_set_string(), NULL, and SNMP_FREE.
.PP
Referenced by netsnmp_fixup_mib_directory(), and netsnmp_get_mib_directory().
.SS "int netsnmp_str2oid (const char * S, oid * O, int L)"
.PP
Converts a string to its OID form. 
.PP
in example 'hello' = 5 . 'h' . 'e' . 'l' . 'l' . 'o'
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIS\fP The string. 
.br
\fIO\fP The oid. 
.br
\fIL\fP The length of the oid.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
0 on Sucess, 1 on failure. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 6186 of file mib.c.
.SS "void print_description (oid * objid, size_t objidlen, int width)"
.PP
Prints on oid description on stdout. 
.PP
\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBfprint_description\fP 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 4410 of file mib.c.
.PP
References fprint_description().
.SS "void print_mib (FILE * fp)"
.PP
Prints the MIBs to the file fp. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIfp\fP The file descriptor to print to. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 2737 of file mib.c.
.PP
References tree_head.
.SS "void print_objid (const oid * objid, size_t objidlen)"
.PP
Prints an oid to stdout. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIobjid\fP The oid to print 
.br
\fIobjidlen\fP The length of oidid. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 3145 of file mib.c.
.PP
References fprint_objid().
.SS "void print_variable (const oid * objid, size_t objidlen, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP * variable)"
.PP
Prints a variable to stdout. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIobjid\fP The object id. 
.br
\fIobjidlen\fP The length of teh object id. 
.br
\fIvariable\fP The variable to print. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 3290 of file mib.c.
.PP
References fprint_variable().
.SS "int read_objid (const char * input, oid * output, size_t * out_len)"
.PP
Reads an object identifier from an input string into internal OID form. 
.PP
When called, out_len must hold the maximum length of the output array.
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIinput\fP the input string. 
.br
\fIoutput\fP the oid wirte. 
.br
\fIout_len\fP number of subid's in output.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
1 if successful.
.RE
.PP
If an error occurs, this function returns 0 and MAY set snmp_errno. snmp_errno is NOT set if SET_SNMP_ERROR evaluates to nothing. This can make multi-threaded use a tiny bit more robust. 
.PP
Definition at line 2835 of file mib.c.
.PP
References get_node(), netsnmp_ds_get_boolean(), NULL, SNMP_FREE, and tree_head.
.PP
Referenced by read_config_read_objid(), and snmp_parse_oid().
.SS "void set_function (struct \fBtree\fP * subtree)"
.PP
Set's the printing function printomat in a subtree according it's type. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIsubtree\fP The subtree to set. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 2758 of file mib.c.
.PP
References NULL, tree::printer, tree::printomat, sprint_realloc_bitstring(), sprint_realloc_by_type(), sprint_realloc_counter(), sprint_realloc_counter64(), sprint_realloc_gauge(), sprint_realloc_integer(), sprint_realloc_ipaddress(), sprint_realloc_networkaddress(), sprint_realloc_nsapaddress(), sprint_realloc_null(), sprint_realloc_object_identifier(), sprint_realloc_octet_string(), sprint_realloc_opaque(), sprint_realloc_timeticks(), sprint_realloc_uinteger(), and tree::type.
.SS "void shutdown_mib (void)"
.PP
Unloads all mibs. 
.PP
Definition at line 2714 of file mib.c.
.PP
References tree::label, Mib, NULL, SNMP_FREE, and tree_head.
.PP
Referenced by snmp_shutdown().
.SS "void snmp_in_toggle_options_usage (const char * lead, FILE * outf)"
.PP
Prints out a help usage for the in* toggle options. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIlead\fP The lead to print for every line. 
.br
\fIoutf\fP The file descriptor to write to. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 2287 of file mib.c.
.SS "oid* snmp_parse_oid (const char * argv, oid * root, size_t * rootlen)"
.PP
Given a string, parses an oid out of it (if possible). 
.PP
It will try to parse it based on predetermined configuration if present or by every method possible otherwise. If a suffix has been registered using NETSNMP_DS_LIB_OIDSUFFIX, it will be appended to the input string before processing.
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIargv\fP The OID to string parse 
.br
\fIroot\fP An OID array where the results are stored. 
.br
\fIrootlen\fP The max length of the array going in and the data length coming out.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
The root oid pointer if successful, or NULL otherwise. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 5792 of file mib.c.
.PP
References clear_tree_flags(), get_node(), get_wild_node(), netsnmp_ds_get_boolean(), netsnmp_ds_get_string(), NULL, read_objid(), and tree_head.
.PP
Referenced by netsnmp_config_parse_table_set(), and snmp_add_var().
.SS "int sprint_realloc_asciistring (u_char ** buf, size_t * buf_len, size_t * out_len, int allow_realloc, const u_char * cp, size_t len)"
.PP
Prints an ascii string into a buffer. 
.PP
The characters pointed by *cp are encoded as an ascii string.
.PP
If allow_realloc is true the buffer will be (re)allocated to fit in the needed size. (Note: *buf may change due to this.)
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIbuf\fP address of the buffer to print to. 
.br
\fIbuf_len\fP address to an integer containing the size of buf. 
.br
\fIout_len\fP incremented by the number of characters printed. 
.br
\fIallow_realloc\fP if not zero reallocate the buffer to fit the needed size. 
.br
\fIcp\fP the array of characters to encode. 
.br
\fIlen\fP the array length of cp.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
1 on success, or 0 on failure (out of memory, or buffer to small when not allowed to realloc.) 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 367 of file mib.c.
.PP
References snmp_realloc().
.PP
Referenced by asn_build_string(), asn_parse_string(), and snprint_asciistring().
.SS "int sprint_realloc_badtype (u_char ** buf, size_t * buf_len, size_t * out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP * var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP * enums, const char * hint, const char * units)"
.PP
Fallback routine for a bad type, prints 'Variable has bad type' into a buffer. 
.PP
If allow_realloc is true the buffer will be (re)allocated to fit in the needed size. (Note: *buf may change due to this.)
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIbuf\fP Address of the buffer to print to. 
.br
\fIbuf_len\fP Address to an integer containing the size of buf. 
.br
\fIout_len\fP Incremented by the number of characters printed. 
.br
\fIallow_realloc\fP if not zero reallocate the buffer to fit the needed size. 
.br
\fIvar\fP The variable to encode. 
.br
\fIenums\fP The enumeration ff this variable is enumerated. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIhint\fP Contents of the DISPLAY-HINT clause of the MIB. See RFC 1903 Section 3.1 for details. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIunits\fP Contents of the UNITS clause of the MIB. may be NULL.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
1 on success, or 0 on failure (out of memory, or buffer to small when not allowed to realloc.) 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 1900 of file mib.c.
.PP
References snmp_strcat().
.PP
Referenced by snprint_badtype(), and sprint_realloc_by_type().
.SS "int sprint_realloc_bitstring (u_char ** buf, size_t * buf_len, size_t * out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP * var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP * enums, const char * hint, const char * units)"
.PP
Prints a bit string into a buffer. 
.PP
If allow_realloc is true the buffer will be (re)allocated to fit in the needed size. (Note: *buf may change due to this.)
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIbuf\fP Address of the buffer to print to. 
.br
\fIbuf_len\fP Address to an integer containing the size of buf. 
.br
\fIout_len\fP Incremented by the number of characters printed. 
.br
\fIallow_realloc\fP if not zero reallocate the buffer to fit the needed size. 
.br
\fIvar\fP The variable to encode. 
.br
\fIenums\fP The enumeration ff this variable is enumerated. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIhint\fP Contents of the DISPLAY-HINT clause of the MIB. See RFC 1903 Section 3.1 for details. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIunits\fP Contents of the UNITS clause of the MIB. may be NULL.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
1 on success, or 0 on failure (out of memory, or buffer to small when not allowed to realloc.) 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 1761 of file mib.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_vardata::bitstring, enum_list::label, netsnmp_ds_get_boolean(), enum_list::next, NULL, snmp_strcat(), sprint_realloc_by_type(), sprint_realloc_hexstring(), variable_list::type, variable_list::val, variable_list::val_len, and enum_list::value.
.PP
Referenced by set_function(), snprint_bitstring(), and sprint_realloc_by_type().
.SS "int sprint_realloc_by_type (u_char ** buf, size_t * buf_len, size_t * out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP * var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP * enums, const char * hint, const char * units)"
.PP
Universal print routine, prints a variable into a buffer according to the variable type. 
.PP
If allow_realloc is true the buffer will be (re)allocated to fit in the needed size. (Note: *buf may change due to this.)
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIbuf\fP Address of the buffer to print to. 
.br
\fIbuf_len\fP Address to an integer containing the size of buf. 
.br
\fIout_len\fP Incremented by the number of characters printed. 
.br
\fIallow_realloc\fP if not zero reallocate the buffer to fit the needed size. 
.br
\fIvar\fP The variable to encode. 
.br
\fIenums\fP The enumeration ff this variable is enumerated. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIhint\fP Contents of the DISPLAY-HINT clause of the MIB. See RFC 1903 Section 3.1 for details. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIunits\fP Contents of the UNITS clause of the MIB. may be NULL.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
1 on success, or 0 on failure (out of memory, or buffer to small when not allowed to realloc.) 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 1935 of file mib.c.
.PP
References sprint_realloc_badtype(), sprint_realloc_bitstring(), sprint_realloc_counter(), sprint_realloc_counter64(), sprint_realloc_gauge(), sprint_realloc_integer(), sprint_realloc_ipaddress(), sprint_realloc_null(), sprint_realloc_object_identifier(), sprint_realloc_octet_string(), sprint_realloc_opaque(), sprint_realloc_timeticks(), sprint_realloc_uinteger(), and variable_list::type.
.PP
Referenced by set_function(), snprint_by_type(), sprint_realloc_bitstring(), sprint_realloc_counter(), sprint_realloc_counter64(), sprint_realloc_gauge(), sprint_realloc_integer(), sprint_realloc_ipaddress(), sprint_realloc_networkaddress(), sprint_realloc_nsapaddress(), sprint_realloc_null(), sprint_realloc_object_identifier(), sprint_realloc_octet_string(), sprint_realloc_opaque(), sprint_realloc_timeticks(), sprint_realloc_uinteger(), sprint_realloc_value(), sprint_realloc_variable(), and table_helper_handler().
.SS "int sprint_realloc_counter (u_char ** buf, size_t * buf_len, size_t * out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP * var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP * enums, const char * hint, const char * units)"
.PP
Prints a counter value into a buffer. 
.PP
If allow_realloc is true the buffer will be (re)allocated to fit in the needed size. (Note: *buf may change due to this.)
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIbuf\fP Address of the buffer to print to. 
.br
\fIbuf_len\fP Address to an integer containing the size of buf. 
.br
\fIout_len\fP Incremented by the number of characters printed. 
.br
\fIallow_realloc\fP if not zero reallocate the buffer to fit the needed size. 
.br
\fIvar\fP The variable to encode. 
.br
\fIenums\fP The enumeration ff this variable is enumerated. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIhint\fP Contents of the DISPLAY-HINT clause of the MIB. See RFC 1903 Section 3.1 for details. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIunits\fP Contents of the UNITS clause of the MIB. may be NULL.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
1 on success, or 0 on failure (out of memory, or buffer to small when not allowed to realloc.) 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 1528 of file mib.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_vardata::integer, netsnmp_ds_get_boolean(), NULL, snmp_strcat(), sprint_realloc_by_type(), variable_list::type, and variable_list::val.
.PP
Referenced by set_function(), snprint_counter(), and sprint_realloc_by_type().
.SS "int sprint_realloc_counter64 (u_char ** buf, size_t * buf_len, size_t * out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP * var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP * enums, const char * hint, const char * units)"
.PP
Prints a counter into a buffer. 
.PP
The variable var is encoded as a counter value.
.PP
If allow_realloc is true the buffer will be (re)allocated to fit in the needed size. (Note: *buf may change due to this.)
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIbuf\fP Address of the buffer to print to. 
.br
\fIbuf_len\fP Address to an integer containing the size of buf. 
.br
\fIout_len\fP Incremented by the number of characters printed. 
.br
\fIallow_realloc\fP if not zero reallocate the buffer to fit the needed size. 
.br
\fIvar\fP The variable to encode. 
.br
\fIenums\fP The enumeration ff this variable is enumerated. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIhint\fP Contents of the DISPLAY-HINT clause of the MIB. See RFC 1903 Section 3.1 for details. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIunits\fP Contents of the UNITS clause of the MIB. may be NULL.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
1 on success, or 0 on failure (out of memory, or buffer to small when not allowed to realloc.) 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 844 of file mib.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_vardata::counter64, netsnmp_ds_get_boolean(), NULL, snmp_cstrcat, sprint_realloc_by_type(), variable_list::type, and variable_list::val.
.PP
Referenced by set_function(), snprint_counter64(), sprint_realloc_by_type(), and sprint_realloc_opaque().
.SS "int sprint_realloc_gauge (u_char ** buf, size_t * buf_len, size_t * out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP * var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP * enums, const char * hint, const char * units)"
.PP
Prints a gauge value into a buffer. 
.PP
If allow_realloc is true the buffer will be (re)allocated to fit in the needed size. (Note: *buf may change due to this.)
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIbuf\fP Address of the buffer to print to. 
.br
\fIbuf_len\fP Address to an integer containing the size of buf. 
.br
\fIout_len\fP Incremented by the number of characters printed. 
.br
\fIallow_realloc\fP if not zero reallocate the buffer to fit the needed size. 
.br
\fIvar\fP The variable to encode. 
.br
\fIenums\fP The enumeration ff this variable is enumerated. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIhint\fP Contents of the DISPLAY-HINT clause of the MIB. See RFC 1903 Section 3.1 for details. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIunits\fP Contents of the UNITS clause of the MIB. may be NULL.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
1 on success, or 0 on failure (out of memory, or buffer to small when not allowed to realloc.) 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 1455 of file mib.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_vardata::integer, netsnmp_ds_get_boolean(), NULL, snmp_strcat(), sprint_realloc_by_type(), sprint_realloc_hinted_integer(), variable_list::type, and variable_list::val.
.PP
Referenced by set_function(), snprint_gauge(), and sprint_realloc_by_type().
.SS "int sprint_realloc_hinted_integer (u_char ** buf, size_t * buf_len, size_t * out_len, int allow_realloc, long val, const char decimaltype, const char * hint, const char * units)"
.PP
Prints an integer according to the hint into a buffer. 
.PP
If allow_realloc is true the buffer will be (re)allocated to fit in the needed size. (Note: *buf may change due to this.)
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIbuf\fP Address of the buffer to print to. 
.br
\fIbuf_len\fP Address to an integer containing the size of buf. 
.br
\fIout_len\fP Incremented by the number of characters printed. 
.br
\fIallow_realloc\fP if not zero reallocate the buffer to fit the needed size. 
.br
\fIval\fP The variable to encode. 
.br
\fIdecimaltype\fP The enumeration ff this variable is enumerated. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIhint\fP Contents of the DISPLAY-HINT clause of the MIB. See RFC 1903 Section 3.1 for details. may _NOT_ be NULL. 
.br
\fIunits\fP Contents of the UNITS clause of the MIB. may be NULL.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
1 on success, or 0 on failure (out of memory, or buffer to small when not allowed to realloc.) 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 1181 of file mib.c.
.PP
References snmp_strcat().
.PP
Referenced by snprint_hinted_integer(), and sprint_realloc_gauge().
.SS "int sprint_realloc_integer (u_char ** buf, size_t * buf_len, size_t * out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP * var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP * enums, const char * hint, const char * units)"
.PP
Prints an integer into a buffer. 
.PP
If allow_realloc is true the buffer will be (re)allocated to fit in the needed size. (Note: *buf may change due to this.)
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIbuf\fP Address of the buffer to print to. 
.br
\fIbuf_len\fP Address to an integer containing the size of buf. 
.br
\fIout_len\fP Incremented by the number of characters printed. 
.br
\fIallow_realloc\fP if not zero reallocate the buffer to fit the needed size. 
.br
\fIvar\fP The variable to encode. 
.br
\fIenums\fP The enumeration ff this variable is enumerated. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIhint\fP Contents of the DISPLAY-HINT clause of the MIB. See RFC 1903 Section 3.1 for details. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIunits\fP Contents of the UNITS clause of the MIB. may be NULL.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
1 on success, or 0 on failure (out of memory, or buffer to small when not allowed to realloc.) 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 1255 of file mib.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_vardata::integer, enum_list::label, netsnmp_ds_get_boolean(), enum_list::next, NULL, snmp_strcat(), sprint_realloc_by_type(), variable_list::type, variable_list::val, and enum_list::value.
.PP
Referenced by set_function(), snprint_integer(), and sprint_realloc_by_type().
.SS "int sprint_realloc_ipaddress (u_char ** buf, size_t * buf_len, size_t * out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP * var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP * enums, const char * hint, const char * units)"
.PP
Prints an ip-address into a buffer. 
.PP
If allow_realloc is true the buffer will be (re)allocated to fit in the needed size. (Note: *buf may change due to this.)
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIbuf\fP Address of the buffer to print to. 
.br
\fIbuf_len\fP Address to an integer containing the size of buf. 
.br
\fIout_len\fP Incremented by the number of characters printed. 
.br
\fIallow_realloc\fP if not zero reallocate the buffer to fit the needed size. 
.br
\fIvar\fP The variable to encode. 
.br
\fIenums\fP The enumeration ff this variable is enumerated. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIhint\fP Contents of the DISPLAY-HINT clause of the MIB. See RFC 1903 Section 3.1 for details. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIunits\fP Contents of the UNITS clause of the MIB. may be NULL.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
1 on success, or 0 on failure (out of memory, or buffer to small when not allowed to realloc.) 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 1657 of file mib.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_ds_get_boolean(), NULL, snmp_realloc(), snmp_strcat(), sprint_realloc_by_type(), netsnmp_vardata::string, variable_list::type, and variable_list::val.
.PP
Referenced by set_function(), snprint_ipaddress(), and sprint_realloc_by_type().
.SS "int sprint_realloc_networkaddress (u_char ** buf, size_t * buf_len, size_t * out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP * var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP * enums, const char * hint, const char * units)"
.PP
Prints a network address into a buffer. 
.PP
If allow_realloc is true the buffer will be (re)allocated to fit in the needed size. (Note: *buf may change due to this.)
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIbuf\fP Address of the buffer to print to. 
.br
\fIbuf_len\fP Address to an integer containing the size of buf. 
.br
\fIout_len\fP Incremented by the number of characters printed. 
.br
\fIallow_realloc\fP if not zero reallocate the buffer to fit the needed size. 
.br
\fIvar\fP The variable to encode. 
.br
\fIenums\fP The enumeration ff this variable is enumerated. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIhint\fP Contents of the DISPLAY-HINT clause of the MIB. See RFC 1903 Section 3.1 for details. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIunits\fP Contents of the UNITS clause of the MIB. may be NULL.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
1 on success, or 0 on failure (out of memory, or buffer to small when not allowed to realloc.) 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 1591 of file mib.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_ds_get_boolean(), NULL, snmp_realloc(), snmp_strcat(), sprint_realloc_by_type(), netsnmp_vardata::string, variable_list::type, variable_list::val, and variable_list::val_len.
.PP
Referenced by set_function(), and snprint_networkaddress().
.SS "int sprint_realloc_null (u_char ** buf, size_t * buf_len, size_t * out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP * var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP * enums, const char * hint, const char * units)"
.PP
Prints a null value into a buffer. 
.PP
If allow_realloc is true the buffer will be (re)allocated to fit in the needed size. (Note: *buf may change due to this.)
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIbuf\fP Address of the buffer to print to. 
.br
\fIbuf_len\fP Address to an integer containing the size of buf. 
.br
\fIout_len\fP Incremented by the number of characters printed. 
.br
\fIallow_realloc\fP if not zero reallocate the buffer to fit the needed size. 
.br
\fIvar\fP The variable to encode. 
.br
\fIenums\fP The enumeration ff this variable is enumerated. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIhint\fP Contents of the DISPLAY-HINT clause of the MIB. See RFC 1903 Section 3.1 for details. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIunits\fP Contents of the UNITS clause of the MIB. may be NULL.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
1 on success, or 0 on failure (out of memory, or buffer to small when not allowed to realloc.) 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 1717 of file mib.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_ds_get_boolean(), NULL, snmp_strcat(), sprint_realloc_by_type(), and variable_list::type.
.PP
Referenced by set_function(), snprint_null(), and sprint_realloc_by_type().
.SS "int sprint_realloc_object_identifier (u_char ** buf, size_t * buf_len, size_t * out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP * var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP * enums, const char * hint, const char * units)"
.PP
Prints an object identifier into a buffer. 
.PP
If allow_realloc is true the buffer will be (re)allocated to fit in the needed size. (Note: *buf may change due to this.)
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIbuf\fP Address of the buffer to print to. 
.br
\fIbuf_len\fP Address to an integer containing the size of buf. 
.br
\fIout_len\fP Incremented by the number of characters printed. 
.br
\fIallow_realloc\fP if not zero reallocate the buffer to fit the needed size. 
.br
\fIvar\fP The variable to encode. 
.br
\fIenums\fP The enumeration ff this variable is enumerated. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIhint\fP Contents of the DISPLAY-HINT clause of the MIB. See RFC 1903 Section 3.1 for details. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIunits\fP Contents of the UNITS clause of the MIB. may be NULL.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
1 on success, or 0 on failure (out of memory, or buffer to small when not allowed to realloc.) 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 1037 of file mib.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_ds_get_boolean(), netsnmp_sprint_realloc_objid_tree(), NULL, netsnmp_vardata::objid, snmp_strcat(), sprint_realloc_by_type(), variable_list::type, variable_list::val, and variable_list::val_len.
.PP
Referenced by set_function(), snprint_object_identifier(), and sprint_realloc_by_type().
.SS "int sprint_realloc_octet_string (u_char ** buf, size_t * buf_len, size_t * out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP * var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP * enums, const char * hint, const char * units)"
.PP
Prints an octet string into a buffer. 
.PP
The variable var is encoded as octet string.
.PP
If allow_realloc is true the buffer will be (re)allocated to fit in the needed size. (Note: *buf may change due to this.)
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIbuf\fP Address of the buffer to print to. 
.br
\fIbuf_len\fP Address to an integer containing the size of buf. 
.br
\fIout_len\fP Incremented by the number of characters printed. 
.br
\fIallow_realloc\fP if not zero reallocate the buffer to fit the needed size. 
.br
\fIvar\fP The variable to encode. 
.br
\fIenums\fP The enumeration ff this variable is enumerated. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIhint\fP Contents of the DISPLAY-HINT clause of the MIB. See RFC 1903 Section 3.1 for details. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIunits\fP Contents of the UNITS clause of the MIB. may be NULL.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
1 on success, or 0 on failure (out of memory, or buffer to small when not allowed to realloc.) 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 427 of file mib.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_ds_get_boolean(), NULL, snmp_cstrcat, snmp_realloc(), sprint_realloc_by_type(), sprint_realloc_octet_string(), netsnmp_vardata::string, variable_list::type, variable_list::val, and variable_list::val_len.
.PP
Referenced by set_function(), snprint_octet_string(), sprint_realloc_by_type(), and sprint_realloc_octet_string().
.SS "int sprint_realloc_opaque (u_char ** buf, size_t * buf_len, size_t * out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP * var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP * enums, const char * hint, const char * units)"
.PP
Prints an object identifier into a buffer. 
.PP
If allow_realloc is true the buffer will be (re)allocated to fit in the needed size. (Note: *buf may change due to this.)
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIbuf\fP Address of the buffer to print to. 
.br
\fIbuf_len\fP Address to an integer containing the size of buf. 
.br
\fIout_len\fP Incremented by the number of characters printed. 
.br
\fIallow_realloc\fP if not zero reallocate the buffer to fit the needed size. 
.br
\fIvar\fP The variable to encode. 
.br
\fIenums\fP The enumeration ff this variable is enumerated. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIhint\fP Contents of the DISPLAY-HINT clause of the MIB. See RFC 1903 Section 3.1 for details. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIunits\fP Contents of the UNITS clause of the MIB. may be NULL.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
1 on success, or 0 on failure (out of memory, or buffer to small when not allowed to realloc.) 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 947 of file mib.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_ds_get_boolean(), NULL, snmp_cstrcat, snmp_strcat(), sprint_realloc_by_type(), sprint_realloc_counter64(), sprint_realloc_hexstring(), netsnmp_vardata::string, variable_list::type, variable_list::val, and variable_list::val_len.
.PP
Referenced by set_function(), snprint_opaque(), and sprint_realloc_by_type().
.SS "int sprint_realloc_timeticks (u_char ** buf, size_t * buf_len, size_t * out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP * var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP * enums, const char * hint, const char * units)"
.PP
Prints a timetick variable into a buffer. 
.PP
If allow_realloc is true the buffer will be (re)allocated to fit in the needed size. (Note: *buf may change due to this.)
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIbuf\fP Address of the buffer to print to. 
.br
\fIbuf_len\fP Address to an integer containing the size of buf. 
.br
\fIout_len\fP Incremented by the number of characters printed. 
.br
\fIallow_realloc\fP if not zero reallocate the buffer to fit the needed size. 
.br
\fIvar\fP The variable to encode. 
.br
\fIenums\fP The enumeration ff this variable is enumerated. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIhint\fP Contents of the DISPLAY-HINT clause of the MIB. See RFC 1903 Section 3.1 for details. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIunits\fP Contents of the UNITS clause of the MIB. may be NULL.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
1 on success, or 0 on failure (out of memory, or buffer to small when not allowed to realloc.) 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 1107 of file mib.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_vardata::integer, netsnmp_ds_get_boolean(), NULL, snmp_strcat(), sprint_realloc_by_type(), variable_list::type, and variable_list::val.
.PP
Referenced by set_function(), snprint_timeticks(), and sprint_realloc_by_type().
.SS "int sprint_realloc_uinteger (u_char ** buf, size_t * buf_len, size_t * out_len, int allow_realloc, const \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP * var, const struct \fBenum_list\fP * enums, const char * hint, const char * units)"
.PP
Prints an unsigned integer into a buffer. 
.PP
If allow_realloc is true the buffer will be (re)allocated to fit in the needed size. (Note: *buf may change due to this.)
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIbuf\fP Address of the buffer to print to. 
.br
\fIbuf_len\fP Address to an integer containing the size of buf. 
.br
\fIout_len\fP Incremented by the number of characters printed. 
.br
\fIallow_realloc\fP if not zero reallocate the buffer to fit the needed size. 
.br
\fIvar\fP The variable to encode. 
.br
\fIenums\fP The enumeration ff this variable is enumerated. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIhint\fP Contents of the DISPLAY-HINT clause of the MIB. See RFC 1903 Section 3.1 for details. may be NULL. 
.br
\fIunits\fP Contents of the UNITS clause of the MIB. may be NULL.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
1 on success, or 0 on failure (out of memory, or buffer to small when not allowed to realloc.) 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 1358 of file mib.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_vardata::integer, enum_list::label, netsnmp_ds_get_boolean(), enum_list::next, NULL, snmp_strcat(), sprint_realloc_by_type(), variable_list::type, variable_list::val, and enum_list::value.
.PP
Referenced by set_function(), snprint_uinteger(), and sprint_realloc_by_type().
.SS "char* uptime_string (u_long timeticks, char * buf)"
.PP
Converts timeticks to hours, minutes, seconds string. 
.PP
CMU compatible does not show centiseconds.
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fItimeticks\fP The timeticks to convert. 
.br
\fIbuf\fP Buffer to write to, has to be at least 40 Bytes large.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
The buffer
.RE
.PP
\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
uptimeString 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 5757 of file mib.c.
.PP
References uptime_string_n().
.SH "Variable Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBPrefixList\fP \fBmib_prefixes\fP[]"
.PP
\fBInitial value:\fP
.PP
.nf
 {
    {&Standard_Prefix[0]},      
    {'.iso.org.dod.internet.mgmt.mib-2'},
    {'.iso.org.dod.internet.experimental'},
    {'.iso.org.dod.internet.private'},
    {'.iso.org.dod.internet.snmpParties'},
    {'.iso.org.dod.internet.snmpSecrets'},
    {NULL, 0}                   
}
.fi
.PP
Definition at line 160 of file mib.c.
.PP
Referenced by netsnmp_init_mib().
