.TH "snmp_session" 3 "24 Nov 2006" "Version 5.4" "net-snmp" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
snmp_session \- The snmp session structure.  

.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <snmp_api.h>\fP
.PP
.SS "Data Fields"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "long \fBversion\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIsnmp version \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBretries\fP"
.br
.RI "\fINumber of retries before timeout. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "long \fBtimeout\fP"
.br
.RI "\fINumber of uS until first timeout, then exponential backoff. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "u_long \fBflags\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBsnmp_session\fP * \fBsubsession\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBsnmp_session\fP * \fBnext\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBpeername\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIDomain name or dotted IP address of default peer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "u_short \fBremote_port\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIUDP port number of peer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBlocalname\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIMy Domain name or dotted IP address, 0 for default. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "u_short \fBlocal_port\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIMy UDP port number, 0 for default, picked randomly. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "u_char *(* \fBauthenticator\fP )(u_char *, size_t *, u_char *, size_t)"
.br
.RI "\fIAuthentication function or NULL if null authentication is used. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "netsnmp_callback \fBcallback\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIFunction to interpret incoming data. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void * \fBcallback_magic\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPointer to data that the callback function may consider important. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBs_errno\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIcopy of system errno \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBs_snmp_errno\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIcopy of library errno \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "long \fBsessid\fP"
.br
.RI "\fISession id - AgentX only. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "u_char * \fBcommunity\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIcommunity for outgoing requests. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "size_t \fBcommunity_len\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILength of community name. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "size_t \fBrcvMsgMaxSize\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILargest message to try to receive. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "size_t \fBsndMsgMaxSize\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILargest message to try to send. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "u_char \fBisAuthoritative\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIare we the authoritative engine? \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "u_char * \fBcontextEngineID\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIauthoritative snmpEngineID \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "size_t \fBcontextEngineIDLen\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILength of contextEngineID. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "u_int \fBengineBoots\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIinitial engineBoots for remote engine \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "u_int \fBengineTime\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIinitial engineTime for remote engine \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBcontextName\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIauthoritative contextName \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "size_t \fBcontextNameLen\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILength of contextName. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "u_char * \fBsecurityEngineID\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIauthoritative snmpEngineID \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "size_t \fBsecurityEngineIDLen\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILength of contextEngineID. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBsecurityName\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIon behalf of this principal \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "size_t \fBsecurityNameLen\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILength of securityName. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "oid * \fBsecurityAuthProto\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIauth protocol oid \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "size_t \fBsecurityAuthProtoLen\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILength of auth protocol oid. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "u_char \fBsecurityAuthKey\fP [USM_AUTH_KU_LEN]"
.br
.RI "\fIKu for auth protocol XXX. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "size_t \fBsecurityAuthKeyLen\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILength of Ku for auth protocol. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "u_char * \fBsecurityAuthLocalKey\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIKul for auth protocol. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "size_t \fBsecurityAuthLocalKeyLen\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILength of Kul for auth protocol XXX. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "oid * \fBsecurityPrivProto\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIpriv protocol oid \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "size_t \fBsecurityPrivProtoLen\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILength of priv protocol oid. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "u_char \fBsecurityPrivKey\fP [USM_PRIV_KU_LEN]"
.br
.RI "\fIKu for privacy protocol XXX. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "size_t \fBsecurityPrivKeyLen\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILength of Ku for priv protocol. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "u_char * \fBsecurityPrivLocalKey\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIKul for priv protocol. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "size_t \fBsecurityPrivLocalKeyLen\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILength of Kul for priv protocol XXX. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsecurityModel\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIsnmp security model, v1, v2c, usm \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBsecurityLevel\fP"
.br
.RI "\fInoAuthNoPriv, authNoPriv, authPriv \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBparamName\fP"
.br
.RI "\fItarget param name \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void * \fBsecurityInfo\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIsecurity module specific \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void * \fBmyvoid\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIuse as you want data \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
The snmp session structure. 
.PP
Definition at line 187 of file snmp_api.h.
.SH "Field Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "u_char*(* \fBsnmp_session::authenticator\fP)(u_char *, size_t *, u_char *, size_t)"
.PP
Authentication function or NULL if null authentication is used. 
.PP
Referenced by netsnmp_register_agent_nsap().
.SS "netsnmp_callback \fBsnmp_session::callback\fP"
.PP
Function to interpret incoming data. 
.PP
Definition at line 214 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by _sess_read(), netsnmp_register_agent_nsap(), snmp_sess_synch_response(), snmp_sess_timeout(), and snmp_synch_response_cb().
.SS "void* \fBsnmp_session::callback_magic\fP"
.PP
Pointer to data that the callback function may consider important. 
.PP
Definition at line 218 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by _sess_read(), snmp_sess_synch_response(), snmp_sess_timeout(), and snmp_synch_response_cb().
.SS "u_char* \fBsnmp_session::community\fP"
.PP
community for outgoing requests. 
.PP
Definition at line 230 of file snmp_api.h.
.SS "size_t \fBsnmp_session::community_len\fP"
.PP
Length of community name. 
.PP
Definition at line 232 of file snmp_api.h.
.SS "u_char* \fBsnmp_session::contextEngineID\fP"
.PP
authoritative snmpEngineID 
.PP
Definition at line 244 of file snmp_api.h.
.SS "size_t \fBsnmp_session::contextEngineIDLen\fP"
.PP
Length of contextEngineID. 
.PP
Definition at line 246 of file snmp_api.h.
.SS "char* \fBsnmp_session::contextName\fP"
.PP
authoritative contextName 
.PP
Definition at line 252 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by unregister_mibs_by_session().
.SS "size_t \fBsnmp_session::contextNameLen\fP"
.PP
Length of contextName. 
.PP
Definition at line 254 of file snmp_api.h.
.SS "u_int \fBsnmp_session::engineBoots\fP"
.PP
initial engineBoots for remote engine 
.PP
Definition at line 248 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by snmpv3_engineID_probe().
.SS "u_int \fBsnmp_session::engineTime\fP"
.PP
initial engineTime for remote engine 
.PP
Definition at line 250 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by snmpv3_engineID_probe().
.SS "u_char \fBsnmp_session::isAuthoritative\fP"
.PP
are we the authoritative engine? 
.PP
Definition at line 242 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by netsnmp_register_agent_nsap().
.SS "u_short \fBsnmp_session::local_port\fP"
.PP
My UDP port number, 0 for default, picked randomly. 
.PP
Definition at line 208 of file snmp_api.h.
.SS "char* \fBsnmp_session::localname\fP"
.PP
My Domain name or dotted IP address, 0 for default. 
.PP
Definition at line 206 of file snmp_api.h.
.SS "void* \fBsnmp_session::myvoid\fP"
.PP
use as you want data 
.PP
Definition at line 305 of file snmp_api.h.
.SS "char* \fBsnmp_session::paramName\fP"
.PP
target param name 
.PP
Definition at line 295 of file snmp_api.h.
.SS "char* \fBsnmp_session::peername\fP"
.PP
Domain name or dotted IP address of default peer. 
.PP
Definition at line 202 of file snmp_api.h.
.SS "size_t \fBsnmp_session::rcvMsgMaxSize\fP"
.PP
Largest message to try to receive. 
.PP
Definition at line 234 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by snmp_sess_add_ex(), and snmp_sess_init().
.SS "u_short \fBsnmp_session::remote_port\fP"
.PP
UDP port number of peer. 
.PP
Definition at line 204 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by snmp_sess_init().
.SS "int \fBsnmp_session::retries\fP"
.PP
Number of retries before timeout. 
.PP
Definition at line 194 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by snmp_sess_init(), and snmp_sess_timeout().
.SS "int \fBsnmp_session::s_errno\fP"
.PP
copy of system errno 
.PP
Definition at line 220 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by _sess_read(), and snmp_error().
.SS "int \fBsnmp_session::s_snmp_errno\fP"
.PP
copy of library errno 
.PP
Definition at line 222 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by _sess_read(), handle_snmp_packet(), snmp_build(), snmp_error(), snmp_sess_add_ex(), snmp_sess_async_send(), snmp_sess_open(), snmp_sess_read(), and snmpv3_engineID_probe().
.SS "u_char \fBsnmp_session::securityAuthKey\fP[USM_AUTH_KU_LEN]"
.PP
Ku for auth protocol XXX. 
.PP
Definition at line 269 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by create_user_from_session().
.SS "size_t \fBsnmp_session::securityAuthKeyLen\fP"
.PP
Length of Ku for auth protocol. 
.PP
Definition at line 271 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by create_user_from_session().
.SS "u_char* \fBsnmp_session::securityAuthLocalKey\fP"
.PP
Kul for auth protocol. 
.PP
Definition at line 273 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by create_user_from_session().
.SS "size_t \fBsnmp_session::securityAuthLocalKeyLen\fP"
.PP
Length of Kul for auth protocol XXX. 
.PP
Definition at line 275 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by create_user_from_session().
.SS "oid* \fBsnmp_session::securityAuthProto\fP"
.PP
auth protocol oid 
.PP
Definition at line 265 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by create_user_from_session().
.SS "size_t \fBsnmp_session::securityAuthProtoLen\fP"
.PP
Length of auth protocol oid. 
.PP
Definition at line 267 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by create_user_from_session().
.SS "u_char* \fBsnmp_session::securityEngineID\fP"
.PP
authoritative snmpEngineID 
.PP
Definition at line 256 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by create_user_from_session(), and snmpv3_engineID_probe().
.SS "size_t \fBsnmp_session::securityEngineIDLen\fP"
.PP
Length of contextEngineID. 
.PP
Definition at line 258 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by create_user_from_session(), and snmpv3_engineID_probe().
.SS "void* \fBsnmp_session::securityInfo\fP"
.PP
security module specific 
.PP
Definition at line 300 of file snmp_api.h.
.SS "int \fBsnmp_session::securityLevel\fP"
.PP
noAuthNoPriv, authNoPriv, authPriv 
.PP
Definition at line 293 of file snmp_api.h.
.SS "int \fBsnmp_session::securityModel\fP"
.PP
snmp security model, v1, v2c, usm 
.PP
Definition at line 291 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by create_user_from_session(), snmp_sess_close(), and snmp_sess_init().
.SS "char* \fBsnmp_session::securityName\fP"
.PP
on behalf of this principal 
.PP
Definition at line 260 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by create_user_from_session().
.SS "size_t \fBsnmp_session::securityNameLen\fP"
.PP
Length of securityName. 
.PP
Definition at line 262 of file snmp_api.h.
.SS "u_char \fBsnmp_session::securityPrivKey\fP[USM_PRIV_KU_LEN]"
.PP
Ku for privacy protocol XXX. 
.PP
Definition at line 282 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by create_user_from_session().
.SS "size_t \fBsnmp_session::securityPrivKeyLen\fP"
.PP
Length of Ku for priv protocol. 
.PP
Definition at line 284 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by create_user_from_session().
.SS "u_char* \fBsnmp_session::securityPrivLocalKey\fP"
.PP
Kul for priv protocol. 
.PP
Definition at line 286 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by create_user_from_session().
.SS "size_t \fBsnmp_session::securityPrivLocalKeyLen\fP"
.PP
Length of Kul for priv protocol XXX. 
.PP
Definition at line 288 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by create_user_from_session().
.SS "oid* \fBsnmp_session::securityPrivProto\fP"
.PP
priv protocol oid 
.PP
Definition at line 278 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by create_user_from_session().
.SS "size_t \fBsnmp_session::securityPrivProtoLen\fP"
.PP
Length of priv protocol oid. 
.PP
Definition at line 280 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by create_user_from_session().
.SS "long \fBsnmp_session::sessid\fP"
.PP
Session id - AgentX only. 
.PP
Definition at line 224 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by send_trap_to_sess().
.SS "size_t \fBsnmp_session::sndMsgMaxSize\fP"
.PP
Largest message to try to send. 
.PP
Definition at line 236 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by snmpv3_parse().
.SS "long \fBsnmp_session::timeout\fP"
.PP
Number of uS until first timeout, then exponential backoff. 
.PP
Definition at line 196 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by snmp_sess_init().
.SS "long \fBsnmp_session::version\fP"
.PP
snmp version 
.PP
Definition at line 192 of file snmp_api.h.
.PP
Referenced by add_trap_session(), create_user_from_session(), netsnmp_register_agent_nsap(), send_trap_to_sess(), snmp_sess_add_ex(), snmp_sess_init(), and snmpv3_engineID_probe().

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for net-snmp from the source code.
