.Dd June 21, 2013
.Dt LIBMICROHTTPD 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm libmicrohttpd
.Nd library for embedding HTTP servers
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libmicrohttpd
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In microhttpd.h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
GNU libmicrohttpd (short MHD) allows applications to easily integrate the functionality of a simple HTTP server.  MHD is a GNU package.
.sp
The details of the API are described in comments in the header file, a detailed reference documentation in Texinfo, a tutorial, and in brief on the MHD webpage.
.Sh LEGAL NOTICE
libmicrohttpd is released under both the LGPL Version 2.1 or higher and the GNU GPL with eCos extension.  For details on both licenses please read the respective appendix in the Texinfo manual.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /etc/ttys -compact
.It Pa microhttpd.h
libmicrohttpd include file
.It Pa libmicrohttpd.so
libmicrohttpd library
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr curl 1 ,
.Xr libcurl 3 ,
info libmicrohttpd
.Sh AUTHORS
GNU
.Nm
was originally designed by
.An -nosplit
.An Christian Grothoff Aq Mt christian@grothoff.org
and
.An Chris GauthierDickey Aq Mt chrisg@cs.du.edu Ns .
The original implementation was done by
.An Daniel Pittman Aq Mt depittman@gmail.com
and Christian Grothoff.
SSL/TLS support was added by Sagie Amir using code from GnuTLS.  See the AUTHORS file in the distribution for a more detailed list of contributors.
.Sh AVAILABILITY
You can obtain the latest version from
.Lk https://www.gnu.org/software/libmicrohttpd/ Ns .
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs by using
.Lk https://gnunet.org/bugs/ "Mantis" Ns .
