.TH "table_indexes" 3 "24 Nov 2006" "Version 5.4" "net-snmp" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
table_indexes \- Routines for working with row indexes.  

.PP
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP * \fBnetsnmp_generic_idx\fP (void *table)"
.br
.RI "\fIRetrieve the indexing structure of the table. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP * \fBnetsnmp_generic_row_idx\fP (void *row)"
.br
.RI "\fIReport the index values for a row. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "size_t \fBnetsnmp_generic_row_oid\fP (void *row, oid *instances)"
.br
.RI "\fIReport the instance OIDs for a row. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBnetsnmp_generic_compare_idx\fP (void *row, \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *index)"
.br
.RI "\fICompare a row against the specified index values. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBnetsnmp_generic_compare_oid\fP (void *row, oid *instances, size_t len)"
.br
.RI "\fICompare a row against the specified instance OIDs. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBnetsnmp_generic_compare_subtree_idx\fP (void *row, \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP *index)"
.br
.RI "\fICheck if a row lies within a subtree of index values. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBnetsnmp_generic_compare_subtree_oid\fP (void *row, oid *instances, size_t len)"
.br
.RI "\fICheck if a row lies within a subtree of instance OIDs. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Routines for working with row indexes. 
.PP
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "int netsnmp_generic_compare_idx (void * row, \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP * index)"
.PP
Compare a row against the specified index values. 
.PP
Definition at line 325 of file table_generic.c.
.SS "int netsnmp_generic_compare_oid (void * row, oid * instances, size_t len)"
.PP
Compare a row against the specified instance OIDs. 
.PP
Definition at line 331 of file table_generic.c.
.SS "int netsnmp_generic_compare_subtree_idx (void * row, \fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP * index)"
.PP
Check if a row lies within a subtree of index values. 
.PP
Definition at line 337 of file table_generic.c.
.SS "int netsnmp_generic_compare_subtree_oid (void * row, oid * instances, size_t len)"
.PP
Check if a row lies within a subtree of instance OIDs. 
.PP
Definition at line 343 of file table_generic.c.
.SS "\fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP* netsnmp_generic_idx (void * table)"
.PP
Retrieve the indexing structure of the table. 
.PP
Definition at line 307 of file table_generic.c.
.SS "\fBnetsnmp_variable_list\fP* netsnmp_generic_row_idx (void * row)"
.PP
Report the index values for a row. 
.PP
Definition at line 313 of file table_generic.c.
.SS "size_t netsnmp_generic_row_oid (void * row, oid * instances)"
.PP
Report the instance OIDs for a row. 
.PP
Definition at line 319 of file table_generic.c.
