.TH "mib_maintenance" 3 "24 Nov 2006" "Version 5.4" "net-snmp" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
mib_maintenance \- Routines for maintaining a MIB table.  

.PP
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBnetsnmp_mib_handler\fP * \fBnetsnmp_generic_get_handler\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fICreate a MIB handler structure. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBnetsnmp_generic_free_handler\fP (\fBnetsnmp_mib_handler\fP *handler)"
.br
.RI "\fIFree a MIB handler structure, releasing any related resources. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBnetsnmp_generic_register\fP (\fBnetsnmp_handler_registration\fP *reginfo, void *table, \fBnetsnmp_table_registration_info\fP *table_info)"
.br
.RI "\fIRegister a MIB table with the SNMP agent. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBnetsnmp_generic_unregister\fP (\fBnetsnmp_handler_registration\fP *reginfo)"
.br
.RI "\fIUnregister a MIB table from the SNMP agent. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBnetsnmp_generic_extract_table\fP (\fBnetsnmp_request_info\fP *request)"
.br
.RI "\fIExtract the table relating to a requested varbind. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBnetsnmp_generic_extract_row\fP (\fBnetsnmp_request_info\fP *request)"
.br
.RI "\fIExtract the row relating to a requested varbind. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBnetsnmp_generic_insert_row\fP (\fBnetsnmp_request_info\fP *request, void *row)"
.br
.RI "\fIAssociate a (new) row with the requested varbind. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Routines for maintaining a MIB table. 
.PP
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "void netsnmp_generic_extract_row (\fBnetsnmp_request_info\fP * request)"
.PP
Extract the row relating to a requested varbind. 
.PP
Definition at line 195 of file table_generic.c.
.SS "void netsnmp_generic_extract_table (\fBnetsnmp_request_info\fP * request)"
.PP
Extract the table relating to a requested varbind. 
.PP
Definition at line 189 of file table_generic.c.
.SS "netsnmp_generic_free_handler (\fBnetsnmp_mib_handler\fP * handler)"
.PP
Free a MIB handler structure, releasing any related resources. 
.PP
Possibly called automatically by 'netsnmp_unregister_handler' ? 
.PP
Definition at line 165 of file table_generic.c.
.SS "\fBnetsnmp_mib_handler\fP* netsnmp_generic_get_handler (void)"
.PP
Create a MIB handler structure. 
.PP
This will typically be invoked within the corresponding 'netsnmp_generic_register' routine (or the registration code of a sub-helper based on this helper).
.PP
Alternatively, it might be called from the initialisation code of a particular MIB table implementation. 
.PP
Definition at line 158 of file table_generic.c.
.SS "void netsnmp_generic_insert_row (\fBnetsnmp_request_info\fP * request, void * row)"
.PP
Associate a (new) row with the requested varbind. 
.PP
The row should also be associated with any other varbinds that refer to the same index values. 
.PP
Definition at line 203 of file table_generic.c.
.SS "int netsnmp_generic_register (\fBnetsnmp_handler_registration\fP * reginfo, void * table, \fBnetsnmp_table_registration_info\fP * table_info)"
.PP
Register a MIB table with the SNMP agent. 
.PP
Definition at line 172 of file table_generic.c.
.SS "int netsnmp_generic_unregister (\fBnetsnmp_handler_registration\fP * reginfo)"
.PP
Unregister a MIB table from the SNMP agent. 
.PP
This should also release the internal representation of the table. ?? Is a table-specific version of this needed, or would 'netsnmp_unregister_handler' + 'netsnmp_generic_free_handler' do? 
.PP
Definition at line 183 of file table_generic.c.
