.TH "bulk_to_next" 3 "24 Nov 2006" "Version 5.4" "net-snmp" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
bulk_to_next \- Convert GETBULK requests into GETNEXT requests for the handler.  

.PP
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBnetsnmp_mib_handler\fP * \fBnetsnmp_get_bulk_to_next_handler\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIreturns a bulk_to_next handler that can be injected into a given handler chain. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBnetsnmp_bulk_to_next_fix_requests\fP (\fBnetsnmp_request_info\fP *requests)"
.br
.RI "\fItakes answered requests and decrements the repeat count and updates the requests to the next to-do varbind in the list \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBnetsnmp_bulk_to_next_helper\fP (\fBnetsnmp_mib_handler\fP *handler, \fBnetsnmp_handler_registration\fP *reginfo, \fBnetsnmp_agent_request_info\fP *reqinfo, \fBnetsnmp_request_info\fP *requests)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBnetsnmp_init_bulk_to_next_helper\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIinitializes the bulk_to_next helper which then registers a bulk_to_next handler as a run-time injectable handler for configuration file use. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Convert GETBULK requests into GETNEXT requests for the handler. 
.PP
The only purpose of this handler is to convert a GETBULK request to a GETNEXT request. It is inserted into handler chains where the handler has not set the HANDLER_CAN_GETBULK flag. 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "void netsnmp_bulk_to_next_fix_requests (\fBnetsnmp_request_info\fP * requests)"
.PP
takes answered requests and decrements the repeat count and updates the requests to the next to-do varbind in the list 
.PP
Definition at line 42 of file bulk_to_next.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_request_info_s::inclusive, variable_list::name, variable_list::name_length, netsnmp_request_info_s::next, variable_list::next_variable, netsnmp_request_info_s::range_end, netsnmp_request_info_s::range_end_len, netsnmp_request_info_s::repeat, netsnmp_request_info_s::requestvb, snmp_oid_compare(), snmp_set_var_objid(), and variable_list::type.
.PP
Referenced by netsnmp_bulk_to_next_helper().
.SS "\fBnetsnmp_mib_handler\fP* netsnmp_get_bulk_to_next_handler (void)"
.PP
returns a bulk_to_next handler that can be injected into a given handler chain. 
.PP
Definition at line 27 of file bulk_to_next.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_mib_handler_s::flags, MIB_HANDLER_AUTO_NEXT, netsnmp_bulk_to_next_helper(), netsnmp_create_handler(), and NULL.
.PP
Referenced by netsnmp_init_bulk_to_next_helper(), and netsnmp_register_handler().
.SS "void netsnmp_init_bulk_to_next_helper (void)"
.PP
initializes the bulk_to_next helper which then registers a bulk_to_next handler as a run-time injectable handler for configuration file use. 
.PP
Definition at line 139 of file bulk_to_next.c.
.PP
References netsnmp_get_bulk_to_next_handler(), and netsnmp_register_handler_by_name().
