.\" $Id: adsl-connect.8,v 1.1.8.1 2004/08/01 13:08:03 boris Exp $
.\" LIC: GPL
.TH ADSL-CONNECT 8 "21 February 2000"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
adsl-connect \- Shell script to manage a PPPoE link

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B adsl-connect \fR[\fIconfig_file\fR]
.P
.B adsl-connect \fR\fIinterface user\fR [\fIconfig_file\fR]


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBadsl-connect\fR is a shell script which manages an ADSL connection
using the Roaring Penguin user-space PPPoE client.  If you omit
\fIconfig_file\fR, the default file \fB/etc/ppp/pppoe.conf\fR is used.
If you supply \fIinterface\fR and \fIuser\fR, then they override the
Ethernet interface and user-name settings in the configuration file.
.P
Note that normally, you should \fInot\fR invoke \fBadsl-connect\fR
directly.  Instead, use \fBadsl-start\fR to bring up the ADSL connection.
.P
\fBadsl-connect\fR first reads a configuration file.  It then brings
up a PPPoE connection.  If the connection ever drops, a message is logged
to syslog, and \fBadsl-connect\fR re-establishes the connection.  In addition,
each time the connection is dropped or cannot be established,
\fBadsl-connect\fR executes the script \fB/etc/ppp/adsl-lost\fR if it
exists and is executable.

.P
The shell script \fBadsl-stop\fR causes \fBadsl-connect\fR to break out
of its loop, bring the connection down, and exit.

.SH TECHNICAL DETAILS
\fBadsl-connect\fR uses the following shell variables from the
configuration file:

.TP
.B ETH
The Ethernet interface connected to the ADSL modem (for example, eth0).

.TP
.B USER
The ADSL user-id (for example, b1xxnxnx@sympatico.ca).

.TP
.B PIDFILE
A file in which to write the process-ID of the adsl-connect process
(for example, \fB/var/run/pppoe.pid\fR).  Two additional files
($PIDFILE.pppd and $PIDFILE.pppoe) hold the process-ID's of the
\fBpppd\fR and \fBpppoe\fR processes, respectively.

.P
By using different configuration files with different PIDFILE
settings, you can manage multiple PPPoE connections.  Just specify the
configuration file as an argument to \fBadsl-start\fR and
\fBadsl-stop\fR.

.SH AUTHOR
\fBadsl-connect\fR was written by David F. Skoll <dfs@roaringpenguin.com>.

The \fBpppoe\fR home page is \fIhttp://www.roaringpenguin.com/pppoe/\fR.

.SH SEE ALSO
pppoe(8), adsl-start(8), adsl-stop(8), pppd(8), pppoe.conf(5), adsl-setup(8), adsl-status(8), pppoe-sniff(8), pppoe-server(8), pppoe-relay(8)

