.\" Copyright (c) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
.\"
.TH DUMP.F2FS 8
.SH NAME
dump.f2fs \- retrieve directory and file entries from an F2FS-formated image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dump.f2fs
[
.B \-i
.I inode number
]
[
.B \-s
.I SIT range
]
[
.B \-a
.I SSA range
]
[
.B \-b
.I block address
]
[
.B \-d
.I debugging-level
]
.I device
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dump.f2fs
is used to retrieve f2fs metadata (usually in a disk partition).
\fIdevice\fP is the special file corresponding to the device (e.g.
\fI/dev/sdXX\fP).

Currently, it can retrieve 1) a file given its inode number, 2) SIT entries into
a file, 3) SSA entries into a file, 4) reverse information from the given block
address.
.PP
The exit code returned by
.B dump.f2fs
is 0 on success and -1 on failure.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-i " inode number"
Specify an inode number to dump out.
.TP
.BI \-s " SIT range"
Specify a range presented by segment numbers to dump SIT entries.
.TP
.BI \-a " SSA range"
Specify a range presented by segment numbers to dump SSA entries.
.TP
.BI \-b " block address"
Specify a block address to retrieve its metadata information.
.TP
.BI \-d " debug-level"
Specify the level of debugging options.
The default number is 0, which shows basic debugging messages.
.TP
.SH AUTHOR
Initial checking code was written by Byoung Geun Kim <bgbg.kim@samsung.com>.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B dump.f2fs
is available from git://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/jaegeuk/f2fs-tools.git.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkfs.f2fs(8),
.BR fsck.f2fs(8),
.BR defrag.f2fs(8),
.BR resize.f2fs(8),
.BR sload.f2fs(8).
