.\" Copyright (c) 2015 Jaegeuk Kim <jaegeuk@kernel.org>
.\"
.TH RESIZE.F2FS 8
.SH NAME
resize.f2fs \- resize filesystem size
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B resize.f2fs
[
.B \-t
.I target sectors
]
[
.B \-d
.I debugging-level
]
[
.B \-o
.I overprovision-ratio-percentage
]
[
.B \-i
]
[
.B \-s
]
[
.B \-V
]
.I device
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B resize.f2fs
is used to resize an f2fs file system (usually in a disk partition).
\fIdevice\fP is the special file corresponding to the device (e.g.
\fI/dev/sdXX\fP).

Current version only supports expanding the prebuilt filesystem.

.PP
The exit code returned by
.B resize.f2fs
is 0 on success and -1 on failure.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-t " target sectors"
Specify the size in sectors.
.TP
.BI \-d " debug-level"
Specify the level of debugging options.
The default number is 0, which shows basic debugging messages.
.TP
.BI \-o " overprovision-ratio-percentage"
Specify the percentage of the volume that will be used as overprovision area.
This area is hidden to users, and utilized by F2FS cleaner. If not specified, the
best number will be assigned automatically according to the partition size.
.TP
.BI \-i
Enable extended node bitmap.
.TP
.BI \-s
Enable safe resize.
.TP
.BI \-V
Print the version number and exit.
.TP
.SH AUTHOR
This version of
.B resize.f2fs
has been written by Jaegeuk Kim <jaegeuk@kernel.org>.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B resize.f2fs
is available from git://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/jaegeuk/f2fs-tools.git.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkfs.f2fs(8),
.BR fsck.f2fs(8),
.BR dump.f2fs(8),
.BR defrag.f2fs(8),
.BR sload.f2fs(8).
