.\" Copyright (C) 2015 Huawei Ltd.
.\"
.TH SLOAD.F2FS 8
.SH NAME
sload.f2fs \- load directories and files into the device directly
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sload.f2fs
[
.B \-f
.I source-directory-path
]
[
.B \-t
.I mount-point
]
[
.B \-d
.I debugging-level
]
[
.B \-P
]
[
.B \-c
[
.B \-L
.I log-of-blocks-per-cluster
]
[
.B \-a
.I compression-algorithm
]
[
.B \-x
.I file-extension-to-exclude-from-compression
|
.B \-i
.I file-extension-to-include-for-compression
]
[
.B \-m
.I minimum-compressed-blocks-per-cluster
]
[
.B \-r
]
]
.I device
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sload.f2fs
is used to load directories and files into a disk partition, or an F2FS
image (file).
\fIdevice\fP could a special file corresponding to the device (e.g.
\fI/dev/sdXX\fP), or an F2FS image file.

.PP
The exit code returned by
.B sload.f2fs
is 0 on success and -1 on failure.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-f " source-directory-path"
Specify the source directory path to be loaded.
.TP
.BI \-t " mount-point-path"
Specify the mount point path in the partition to load.
.TP
.BI \-d " debug-level"
Specify the level of debugging options.
The default number is 0, which shows basic debugging messages.
.TP
.BI \-P
Preserve owner: user and group.
The user and group of the source files will be taken into account.
.TP
.BI \-c
Enable a cluster-based file compression.
The file would be chopped into clusters, and each cluster is compressed
independently.
.TP
.BI \-L " log-of-blocks-per-cluster
Specify cluster size in power of two blocks.
The minimum value is 2 (4 blocks, default).
The maximum value is 8 (256 blocks).
Note that a block contains 4096 bytes.
This option must be used with option \fB\-c\fR.
.TP
.BI \-a " compression-algorithm"
Choose the algorithm for compression. Available options are:
lzo, lz4 (default).
This option must be used with option \fB\-c\fR.
.TP
.BI \-i " file-extension-to-include-for-compression"
Specify a file extension to include for the compression.
To specify multiple file extensions, use multiple option \fB\-i\fR's.
Files having one of the listed extensions will be compressed.
This option must be used with option \fB\-c\fR.
.TP
.BI \-x " file-extension-to-exclude-from-compression"
Specify a file extension to exclude from compression.
To specify multiple file extensions, use multiple option \fB\-x\fR's.
Files having one of the listed extensions won't be compressed.
This option must be used with option \fB\-c\fR.
.TP
.BI \-m " minimum-compressed-blocks-per-cluster"
Specify a minimum block count saved (by compression) per cluster.
The minimum value is 1 (default).
Maximum value is the cluster size in blocks minus 1.
If compression of a cluster fails to save at least the minimum compressed
block count given by the option, the cluster will not be compressed.
This option must be used with option \fB\-c\fR.
.TP
.BI \-r
Specify read-only flag for the compressed files.
It allows filesystem to release compressed space to the users, since, without
this option, filesystem should keep the space for future file updates.
This option must be used with option \fB\-c\fR.

.SH NOTES
If neither \fB\-i\fR nor \fB\-x\fR is used, all files will be compressed.
Obviously, option \fB\-i\fR and \fB-x\fR can not be used together.

.SH AUTHOR
This version of
.B sload.f2fs
has been contributed by Hou Pengyang <houpengyang@huawei.com>,
Liu Shuoran <liushuoran@huawei.com>, Jaegeuk Kim <jaegeuk@kernel.org>,
Robin Hsu <robinhsu@google.com>
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B sload.f2fs
is available from <git://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/jaegeuk/f2fs-tools.git>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkfs.f2fs(8),
.BR fsck.f2fs(8),
.BR dump.f2fs(8),
.BR defrag.f2fs(8),
.BR resize.f2fs(8).
