.TH SAP 7 "November 6, 1997" "Linux" "Miscellaneous"
.SH NAME
sap \- Service Access Point specification
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBtext2sap\fP and \fBsap2text\fP functions use the format described
in this man page. Because all standard ATM tools on Linux use those
functions to convert to or from the textual representation of SAP
specifications, they expect them in the same format too.
.P
The SAP is divided into two parts: the \fIbroadband high layer information\fP
(BHLI) and the \fIbroadband low layer information\fP (BLLI). A SAP can contain
one, both, or none of them. In the latter case, the SAP is usually considered
as a wildcard SAP, i.e. a SAP that is compatible with any other SAP.
.P
Each part begins with its name (\fBbhli\fP or \fBblli\fP), followed by a
colon and a (non-empty) list of attributes, which are of the form
\fIattribute\fP\fB=\fP\fIvalue\fP. Some attributes have sub-attributes,
which follow them. Everything that isn't separated by a colon or an equal
sign is separated by a comma.
.P
Values which are a number of bytes are specified as the corresponding
sequence of pairs of hex digits. The sequence can be optionally prefixed
with \fB0x\fP. Values with are integers in a given range can be specified
in decimal (no prefix), octal (\fB0\fP prefix), and hexadecimal (\fB0x\fP
prefix).
.P
The following, mutually exclusive attributes are allowed in the \fBbhli\fP
part (see the corresponding ATM Forum and ITU documents for the semantics):
.IP \fBiso=\fI1\-8\ bytes\fP
ISO
.IP \fBuser=\fI1\-8\ bytes\fP
User-specific
.IP \fBhlp=\fI4\ bytes\fP
High layer profile.
Note that this attribute only exists on UNI 3.0. \fBtext2sap\fP only
recognizes it if your system is configured to accept UNI 3.0 message formats.
.IP \fBoui=\fI3\ bytes\fB,id=\fI4\ bytes\fP
Vendor-specific application identifier
.P
The structure of the \fBbhli\fP part is more complex. It distinguishes three
layers, \fBl1\fP, \fBl2\fP, and \fBl3\fP, of which the first one is presently
unsupported. For layer two, the following (mutually exclusive) possibilities
exist:
.IP \fBl2=iso1745\fP
Basic mode ISO 1745
.IP \fBl2=q291\fP
ITU-T Q.291 (Rec. I.441)
.IP \fBl2=lapb\fP
Extended LAPB, half-duplex (Rec. T.71)
.IP \fBl2=iso8802\fP
LAN LLC (ISO/IEC 8802/2)
.IP \fBl2=x75\fP
ITU-T X.75, SLP
.IP \fBl2=x25_ll\fP\ ...
ITU-T X.25, link layer. This attribute and the following attributes through
\fBl2=iso7776\fP can optionally be followed by one or more of the following
sub-attributes: \fBmode=\fP\fImode\fP (mode of operation, either \fBnorm\fP or
\fBext\fP), and \fBwindow=\fP\fIwindow size\fP (window size in k, 1\-127).
.IP \fBl2=x25_ml\fP\ ...
ITU-T X.25, multilink
.IP \fBl2=hdlc_arm\fP\ ...
HDLC ARM (ISO/IEC 4335)
.IP \fBl2=hdlc_nrm\fP\ ...
HDLC NRM (ISO/IEC 4335)
.IP \fBl2=hdlc_abm\fP\ ...
HDLC ABM (ISO/IEC 4335)
.IP \fBl2=q992\fP\ ...
ITU-T Q.922
.IP \fBl2=iso7776\fP\ ...
ISO 7776 DTE-DTE
.IP \fBl2=user,info=\fIinformation\fP
User-specified. \fIinformation\fP is an integer in the range 0 to 255.
.P
For layer three, the following (again, mutually exclusive) possibilities
exist:
.IP \fBl3=iso8473\fP
ITU-T X.233 | ISO/IEC 8473
.IP \fBl3=t70\fP
ITU-T T.70 minimum network layer
.IP \fBl3=h321\fP
ITU-T Recommendation H.321
.IP \fBl3=x25\fP\ ...
ITU-T X.25, packet layer. This attribute and the following attributes through
\fBl3=x223\fP can optionally be followed by one or more of the following
sub-attributes: \fBmode=\fP\fImode\fP (see above), \fBsize=\fP\fIdefault packet
size\fP (4\-12, corresponding to 16\-4096), \fBwindow=\fP\fIwindow size\fP
(see above).
.IP \fBl3=iso8208\fP\ ...
ISO/IEC 8208
.IP \fBl3=x223\fP\ ...
ITU-T X.223 | ISO/IEC 8878
.IP \fBl3=tr9577,ipi=\fP\fIidentifier\fP\ ...
ISO/IEC TR 9577. \fIidentifier\fP is the initial protocol identifier in
the range 0\-255. For SNAP (0x80), the keyword \fBsnap\fP can be used, and
the following sub-attributes have to be specified: \fBoui=\fP\fI3 bytes\fP,
and \fBpid=\fP\fI2 bytes\fP.
.IP \fBl2=user,info=\fIinformation\fP
User-specified, see above.
.IP \fBl3=h310\fP\ ...
ITU-T Recommendation H.310. The sub-attribute \fBterm=\fP\fItype\fP (terminal
type, \fBrx\fP, \fBtx\fP, or \fBrxtx\fP) is recognized. If present, it
enables the two additional sub-attributes \fBfw_mpx=\fP\fIcapability\fP
(forward multiplexing capability, \fBts\fP, \fBts_fec\fP, \fBps\fP,
\fBps_fec\fP, or \fBh221\fP) and \fBbw_mpx=\fP\fIcapability\fP. Both are
optional.
.P
Note that commas must never follow colons or other commas. Also,
whitespace is not allowed inside a SAP specification. SAP specifications
are case-insensitive. On input, items must be written in exactly the order
used in this document.
.P
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP \fBblli:l2=iso8802\fP
Classical IP over ATM (RFC1577)
.IP \fBbhli:oui=0x0060D7,id=0x01000001,blli:l2=iso8802\fP
Arequipa (RFC2170)
.IP \fBblli:l3=tr9577,ipi=snap,oui=0x00A03E,pid=0x0002\fP
LAN Emulation
.SH AUTHOR
Werner Almesberger, EPFL LRC <werner.almesberger@lrc.di.epfl.ch>
.\"{{{}}}
